## Title: Admissions called for 2019 Grade One admissions
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 31 May 2018 02:20 pm
Admissions called for 2019 Grade One admissions
	
The circular relating to the admission of students to Grade One in State schools had been released today, the Education Ministry said.
A specimen application form was published in the website www.moe.gov.lk, it said.
The Ministry said parents or legal guardians, who wished to enroll their children into Grade One of Government schools in year 2019, should submit their applications prepared as per the specimen form and instructions and send it to the relevant Heads of Schools by registered post to reach them before June 30, 2018. (Chaturanga Samarawickrama)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Aloysius gave me Rs.100,000: SF
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 31 May 2018 12:48 pm
Aloysius gave me Rs.100,000: SF
	
Minister Field Marshal Sarath Fonseka, who claimed that he received Rs. 100,000 from Perpetual Treasuries Ltd (PTL) owner Arjun Aloysius for his election campaign, said today he could refund it with interest, if needed.
He told media after an event at the Sri Lanka Foundation institute in Colombo that it was a normal practice for businessmen to contribute for election campaigns, not only in Sri Lanka but also in other countries in the world.
No one can say that I took Rs. 100,000 from bond scam money. Businessmen contribute for election campaigns and we use them as petty cash in day-today activities of the campaign. I have nothing to hide, he said.
Minister Fonseka said politicians had to seek money when needed for political campaigns and added that it was not amounted to bribe.
I contributed Rs. 600,000 to former President Mahinda Rajapaksas election campaign in 2005 after Gotabhaya Rajapaksa appealed to me. This happens all over the world, even in USA. It is not a bribe.
Those who contribute may expect some benefit but I am not someone, who resorts to illegal things as support in return. We cannot reject such offers in politics as we may make political opponents, if we do so. What I did was not illegal, he said.
Minister Fonseka claimed on Wednesday in Kandy that Aloysius had given him Rs.100, 000 for his election campaign and that he could not remember whether it was cheque or in cash.

Video by Nadeeka Daya Bandara

 
		
==============================
## Title: Be party-season ready with The Body Shops Summer in the City skincare regime
## Section: Press Releases
## Date: 31 May 2018 11:33 am
Be party-season ready with The Body Shops Summer in the City skincare regime
	
Drops of Light Brightening Serum is based on the companys research about the science behind dark spots and pigmentation and results in healthy looking skin
Say hello to the summer wedding season with The Body Shops expert skincare regime as essential arsenal. The Drops of Light range will help partygoers swan through the season with luminous skin from day to night, while Skin Defense is fortified with SPF50+ protection to protect skin from the suns glare and the citys pollution.
Drops of Light is brimming with the goodness of North Atlantic Red Algae extract for glowing and even toned skin. Each product in the range targets the five dimensions of healthy looking skin; the 5-in-1 formula stimulates brightness, translucency, and even tone while minimizing the appearance of pores to leave skin feeling smooth and supple. Formulated by The Body Shops expert team based on the companys research about the science behind dark spots and pigmentation, Drops of Light is available in three forms-as a rich and creamy clarifying foam wash; as the Pure Healthy Brightening Day Cream and as Pure Healthy Brightening Serum. For a quick fix -always handy during the season- turn to the Pure Resurfacing Liquid Peel.
Drops of Light Brightening Serum is based on the companys research about the science behind dark spots and pigmentation and results in healthy looking skin
Skin Defense is the one-bottle solution that helps skin combat the effects of pollution in the city. This multi-protection SPF 50 PA++++ essence works around the clock to combat the threat of the city airs dirty cocktail-UVA and UVB rays, air pollution, air conditioning, radiation, temperature and humidity, hard water and artificial blue light. The formula is The Body Shops strongest solution offering broad spectrum protection in the form of feather light texture; helping to prevent premature ageing and the effects of aggressors on the skin.
All products are founded on The Body Shops principle of fair community trade practices. Both Drops of Light and Skin Defense use Community Trade Marula oil from Namibia, cold-pressed to ensure the best quality; Drops of Light also uses Community Trade Aloe Vera from Mexico.
Ready for the season Shop Drops of Light, Skin Defense and more from The Body Shop skincare and beauty products at its flagship store on Bagatale Road and outlets at Odel Alexandria Place and the Kandy City Centre.
Skin Defense contains SPF 50+ protection and comes highly recommended by professionals to safeguardskin from the suns glare and the citys pollution

 
		
==============================
## Title: Bond fraud creates ruffles in politics
## Section: Opinion
## Date: 31 May 2018 12:00 am
Bond fraud creates ruffles in politics
	
After it transpired that United Peoples Freedom Alliance (UPFA) MP Dayasiri Jayaekara received one million rupees as campaign finance from Arjun Aloysius who is held responsible for the bond fraud, it stirred the hornets nest in politics. 
More politicos with PTL involvement
	All hell will break loose if such names arerevealed with veracity of allegations are proven
Consequent to the revelation in court, news reports went viral in internet and social media saying that, in fact, as many as 118 MPs across the political divide had taken cash inducements from Perpetual Treasuries involved in frauds and irregularities in the Central Bank bond issue as a primary dealer.
This has aroused anxiety among politically savvy people keen to ascertain who and who got money. There are names speculated. UNP MP Ranjan Ramanayake made certain allegations at a press conference conducted in his house. At one point during the press conference, he took an indirect swipe at three MPs alleged to have accepted money. Instead of mentioning their names, he revealed their identities through innuendo. Actually, he referred to their facial expressions and bodily features so that people are able to make correct guesses. 
There is one with a crimson face. The other one is a bearded, dark fellow. The third one is having a slim figure, he said.
No formal charges have been framed against any of them. Also, there is no allegation made against them by name in public as such. Yet, Ranjan Ramanayakes hints may serve as grist for the mill when formal complaints are made one day. 
MP Jayasekara, who defected from the government along with 15 others MPs to sit in the opposition, is now at pain to absolve himself of any wrongdoing. He is now trying to find ways and means to put in public domain the names of others alleged to have accepted money from Perpetual Treasuries or Arjun Aloysius for that matter. 
In politics, all hell will break loose if such names are revealed with the veracity of allegations proven enough. If the allegations are true, it will be detrimental to their future politics in a big away, as most of them were elected on the plank of eradicating bribery and corruption in all their manifestations. Also, the parties that accommodate them will have to get beaten politically at the end.
Presidents son appeared alongside Minister Sajith Premadasa in the same stage
	TNA took steps to revive its youth wing in the north as most Tamils youths with radical ideas stood together
	Ranjan took indirect swipe at three MPs alleged to have accepted money
	These members who remain with MR are not ready to compromise their political identity
	All Ceylon Tamil Congress (ACTC)s Gajendra Kumar Ponnambalam is likely to throw his weight behind Vigneswaran
Some JO members, affiliated organizations skeptical over 16-member SLFP group
The 16-member SLFP group is trying to make overtures to the Joint Opposition. It is learnt from political sources close to the group that there is no uniform stand within it. According to sources, MPs such as Susil Premajayantha, John Amaratunga, Susantha Punchinilame and Sudarshani Fernandopulle wanted to team up with the Joint Opposition straightaway to work under the leadership of former President Mahinda Rajapaksa. Nonetheless, the others such as S.B. Dissanayake and Dayasiri Jayasekara hold a different view. They insist on taking control of the SLFP and the SLFP- UPFA by removing Ministers Mahinda Amaraweera and Duminda Dissanayake from their secretary posts forthwith. In fact, Minister Dissanayake tries to be the SLFP General Secretary. They continue to pledge their loyalty to President Maithripala Sirisena as theSLFP leader.
This has incensed some members of the Joint Opposition and organizations affiliated to it. They remain skeptical about the plan of this SLFP group. It has now led to an open confrontation between thetwo sides. 
These members who remain with Mahinda Rajapaksa are not ready to compromise their political identity built around the lotus bud symbol of the Sri Lanka Podujana Peramuna (SLPP). The SLPP, in fact, articulated in clear-cut terms that it would contest the next elections only under its lotus bud symbol. 
TNA entangled in political whirlpool
The Tamil National Alliance (TNA) is caught in a political whirlpool in the north and the east mainly because of antagonism between it and Northern Province Chief Minister C.V. Wigneswaran. Ahead of the elections to the northern provincial council scheduled for later this year, the Chief Minister has vowed to form a political party as an alternative to the TNA in the north. As things stand at the moment, All Ceylon Tamil Congress (ACTC) led by Gajendra Kumar Ponnambalam is likely to throw his weight behind Mr. Wigneswaran at the next election posing a serious threat to the TNA.
During this trying time, the TNA took steps to revive its youth wing in the north as most Tamils youths with radical ideas stood together Mr. Wigneswaran. They joined the Mullavaikkal commemoration together with Mr. Wigneswaran.
Presidents son Daham Sirisena addresses Sajiths function
President Sirisenas son Daham Sirisena was on the same stage with Housing Construction Minister Sajith Premadasa recently at a function to mark the inauguration of a housing village in Polonnaruwa. He also addressed the gathering and eulogized the work of Minister Sajith Premadasa who is also the son of former President the late Ranasinghe Premadasa.
In fact, President Sirisena sent his son to deputize him at this event because he was busy with some other engagements on the day. 
 
		
==============================
## Title: Cabinet: State employees liable for PAYE Tax
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 31 May 2018 08:06 am
Cabinet: State employees liable for PAYE Tax
	
President Maithripala Sirisena is reported to have said at the Cabinet meeting yesterday that the payments made to the Ministers and MPs amounted to be honorariums, and therefore they could not be considered for taxation.
The President reportedly said the MPs had an honorific before their names, and therefore, what they drew from the State could not be seen as salaries but as honorariums.
Honorariums are payments given for professional services that are rendered nominally without charge.
The President made these remarks in the event of some Ministers complaining earlier that they had been made heavily liable for the PAYE Tax (Pay As You Earn Tax). (Kelum Bandara)
 
		
==============================
## Title: CAL joins hands with regional Investment Banks to access to South Asias frontier markets
## Section: Press Releases
## Date: 31 May 2018 09:19 am
CAL joins hands with regional Investment Banks to access to South Asias frontier markets
	
Nasir Uddhin Chowdhury - Managing Director, Lanka Bangla Securities, Ajith Fernando - Group CEO, CAL, Naveed Vakil  Chief Operating Officer, AKD Securities
Capital Alliance (CAL) has signed an MoU with AKD Securities Limited and Pakistan and Lanka Bangla Securities Limited in Bangladesh with the objective of providing investors with a single investment platform via which they can access South Asias leading frontier markets. The MoU, which comes against the backdrop of the successful inaugural South Asia Investor Conference (SAIC) co-hosted by the three firms in Colombo recently, was signed by Mr. Nasir Uddhin Chowdhury (Managing Director) on behalf of Lanka Bangla Securities, Mr. Naveed Vakil (Chief Operating Officer) on behalf of AKD Securities and Mr. Ajith Fernando (Group CEO) on behalf of CAL.
Amongst many other initiatives, the collaborative effort intends to continue its successful SAIC franchise, on an annual basis, and further its corporate access platform by also organizing joint reverse roadshows. The franchise will also publish joint research reports, enabling international investors to understand the unique dynamics affecting the regions top companies and specific sectors. By way of this MoU, CAL also intends to create a platform via which Sri Lankan investors can access regional capital markets, a fresh opportunity made possible by the countrys new Foreign Exchange Act.
Commenting on the agreement, Mr. Ajith Fernando, Group CEO of Capital Alliance (CAL), said: This MoU is part of CALs dual long-term strategy to create an effective channel via which investors can access Sri Lankas markets and to integrate the domestic markets with those of the region. This regional initiative will enable CAL to provide international portfolio investors both insights and corporate access from an integrated and impartial perspective. The strengths of the individual research teams will combine to provide powerful thought leadership in South Asias fast-growing capital markets.
Mr. Harinlal Aturupane, Managing Director, Capital Alliance Securities, added, We are excited about the prospects of this collaboration. Investors looking to build exposure to South Asia need accurate and reliable information and insights before making investment decisions and this MoU will provide the right expertise to offer such a service. This is the first time that an agreement, integrating access to top frontier markets in the region has been executed. Our collective knowledge about respective countries will be pooled together to offer astute investing insights for investors.
CAL (Capital Alliance) offers a range of investment products covering equity, fixed income and commodities, making it a fully integrated investment bank. The companys focus on portfolio management, wealth management, trading and research are the cornerstones of its investment philosophy. CAL specializes in the origination, trading and sale of securities, both debt and equity, and aims to provide universal broking services to the market. A trusted partner and company focused on good governance and transparency, CAL takes immense pride in setting the benchmark for ethical operations and best practices throughout the organization and in the industry at large.
 
		
==============================
## Title: 100-day-programme prepared by MR's opponents: UNP
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 31 May 2018 05:58 pm
100-day-programme prepared by MR's opponents: UNP
	
Highways Minister Kabir Hashim said today the 100-day-programme was prepared by those who campaigned against former president Mahinda Rajapaksa in 2014.
He told this to the media after the UNP Working Committee meeting held at Sirikotha.
The UNP is responsible for the 100-day-programme, he said in response to a statement made by President Maithripala Sirisena on Wednesday that he was unaware as to who prepared the 100-day-programme.
Moreover, the President had said dissolution of Parliament soon after the 2015 elections would have been a better option as far as politics was concerned.(Yohan Perera)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Diving deep into the influenza outbreak
## Section: News Features
## Date: 31 May 2018 12:00 am
Diving deep into the influenza outbreak
	
After the Dengue fiasco last year, the Seasonal Influenza Virus has taken centre stage as the most recent health scare. The disease is said to be spread mostly in the southern region of the country, claiming several lives including those of several young children. With not much information available on the present status of the disease, speculation is high, blowing the situation out of proportion. The Daily Mirror spoke to several individuals who are directly involved in dealing with the situation at different levels, clearing the air about these speculations and obtaining information on how to prevent the further spread of the disease.
Health authorities are making a rough assumption that the disease came with the tourists
Hospitals and ICUs overflowing with patients
Its reported that there have been 19 deaths so far of small children due to fever during the last 28 days, and 12 deaths from pneumonia in the Matara District General Hospital alone. Inside sources claim that the hospitals in Matara District are overflowing with patients having fever, and the bulk of the patients are being cared for at the Matara District General Hospital, Karapitiya Teaching Hospital, Kamburupitiya Hospital, Walasmulla Hospital, Tangalle hospital, Balapitiya Hospital and Elpitiya Hospital. 
ICUs in the district are overflowing with patients having fever and this includes the ICUs in the hospitals in private sector as well, according to the sources. Out of the 4 people deceased, on the 28 May at the Matara Hospital, 3 are due to respiratory causes. Three people including a 21-year-old youth have passed away due to pneumonia on 28 alone, at the Matara General Hospital. 
On inquiring about the disease control measures taken it was initially reported that the schools of 8 divisions in Matara as well as all the pre-schools will be closed until June 1. Two epidemiology teams have been dispatched to the area to investigate the outbreak, according to the sources from the Health Ministry. Southern Province Chief Minister Shan Wijeyalal De Silva has requested an urgent report on the outbreak from the Regional Director of Health Services. 
Daily admissions to the hospital for other disease conditions have drastically reduced. Patients dont show up at the clinics nor do they present themselves for routine pre-scheduled surgery out of fear for the disease outbreak he revealed
The silence maintained by the Government and the health ministry regarding this matter has become a source of frustration to the general public. The difficulty in obtaining correct information regarding the disease and the number of affected people has driven undue fear and panic into the residents.
All major surgeries in Karapitiya Teaching Hospital have been suspended due to the fever situation
Dr. Janath Liyanage GMOA Branch President at the Karapitiya Hospital
 Almost all our ICU beds are currently being occupied by patients having fever, stated Dr. Janath Liyanage, Consultant Paediatric Surgeon and GMOA Branch President at the Karapitiya Teaching Hospital (KTH) when asked to reveal the current situation at the hospital. Explaining further, he claimed that the ICU has been full for about two months now. All the major surgeries have been suspended until further notice, because the hospital cannot supply the required aftercare in the ICU for the patients undergoing these surgeries due to the ICU being overcrowded with patients having fever. As a paediatric surgeon, I havent been able to do any major surgery for the past 2 months because of the unavailability of the ICUs, proclaimed Dr. Liyanage. 
As for the overall situation in the southern province, he stated that even the doctors werent aware of the exact situation, due to the patients being sent to hospitals throughout the province. 
Not educating the public about the disease adequately has resulted in causing panic among the general population and there is the assumption that a deadly unknown germ is spreading in the Southern Province. Daily admissions to the hospital for other disease conditions have drastically reduced. Patients dont show up at the clinics nor do they present themselves for routine pre-scheduled surgery out of fear for the disease outbreak he revealed. 
When inquiring into the source of the disease and the strain of the virus he explained that the influenza epidemic commenced last November in US, causing almost 4000 deaths. In Sri Lanka, as far as we know, the disease started somewhere around Weligama area, so we can make a rough assumption that it came with the tourists, he said. 
Like the H1N1 strain that caused a pandemic in 2009 worldwide, its currently the influenza strain called H3N2 that is going around, though in a much smaller level, according to international data. So we are assuming that its the same strain that we are currently experiencing, stated Dr. Liyanage. 
He emphasized that up to now, the Epidemiology Unit in Sri Lanka has failed to release any information on the virus strain or the specification of treatment to the healthcare workers. Usually, an infectious disease like this is treated according to a national guideline prepared and released by the Epidemiology Unit. When we requested for an updated guideline they asked us to follow the guideline which was released in 2015, he said. 
GMOA is having a meeting with the minister to talk about expanding the ICU facilities. We have only 7 ICU beds, even though we have the space adequate for 6 more beds. We requested for the instruments last year, but so far they have not been given. So we are trying to add at least two or three additional beds and equipment to the ICU, to keep the hospital at a functional level,he said. Dr. Liyanage also stressed that the secondary infections are more dangerous than the Influenza itself. Most of the children presenting with fever, cough and cold improve within 3 to 4 days. Even though other symptoms disappear the cough can persist. They may again develop high fever with respiratory difficulties and cough, due to another germ that entered the system, due to the weakened tissues from influenza. These infections can be dangerous, causing respiratory failure and sometimes even death.
Influenza not only limited to Southern Province
Dr. Ananda Wijewickrama Infectious Diseases Hospital, Angoda
When asked if there is a risk of the virus spreading to the other regions, Dr. Ananda Wijewickrama, Consultant Physician at the Infectious Diseases Hospital, Angoda revealed that contrary to the popular belief, the disease currently persists in other areas of the country, though at a lesser level. He stated that the IDH has been receiving influenza patients for the past 1 1/2 months, currently having around 5-6 admissions of suspected influenza patients per day. The condition of the majority of these patients is not in serious and they are treated outside, he further claimed. 
When inquiring into the specific strain of the virus he explained that the samples have been sent abroad to be analyzed. This is because Sri Lanka doesnt have the facilities to analyze the virus and it might take some time for the results to arrive. The strain of the virus isnt important in treating the disease, because the treatment methods are similar between the strains of influenza, he reassured. 
The Daily Mirror further learned from him that the vaccine for influenza is recommended to a limited number of people who exposed to risk, even in countries like UK; where they experience yearly outbreaks of influenza virus. These groups at risk include youngsters, the elderly, those who are suffering from chronic illnesses and healthcare workers. Therefore the vaccine isnt required for each and every person and is better to be taken if recommended by a medical profession, he advised. 
The vaccine, which is currently available only in the private sector, is not hundred percent effective due to the rapidly changing nature of the virus, he further claimed. 
Department of Health and Department of Education along with private and public media organizations have a big role to play in preventing the spread of influenza, stressed Dr. Wijewckrama. 
Patients dont show up at the clinics nor do they present themselves for routine pre-scheduled surgery out of fear for the disease outbreak
When asked if there is a change in the severity of the disease compared to the previous years, Dr. Wijewickrama claimed that he didnt observe a drastic change as such, since there were similar incidences of severe influenza during the past couple of years, resulting in pneumonia and sometimes causing deaths of people in vulnerable groups. 
The cause for the deaths associated with Influenza is mostly due to the delay in seeking medical care, he commented, explaining that sometimes patients wait until they have severe illness and respiratory difficulty to seek medical help. He added that sometimes the primary care doctors themselves fail to recognize that the patient needs hospitalized care. Dr. Wijewickrama also underscored that the main cause for the high morbidity in most patients with Influenza isnt the influenza virus itself, but the secondary infections caused by bacteria. Most of this bacteria, which becomes deadly does not respond to antibiotics and it all relates again due to the ignorance of the patients, he declared. Whenever a person develops a cough and cold, and even if its a viral illness, patients expect antibiotics to be prescribed. They demand antibiotics from the doctor or sometimes self-medicate themselves after obtaining medicine from pharmacies. Even some doctors are responsible for prescribing antibiotics inappropriately. So with the frequent use of antibiotics, the body becomes resistant to them and curing these bacterial infections becomes very difficult, explained Dr. Wijewickrama, who strictly advised patients and the doctors not to use antibiotics unless the disease is of bacterial origin. 
Numerous attempts made by the Daily Mirror to contact the Epidemiology unit to obtain the confirmed statistics and information on the disease spread proved futile.
Prevention and seeking medical attention
Dr. Ganganath Gunathilake Consultant in Paediatric Respirtory Medicine
According to Dr. Ganganath Gunathilake, Consultant in Paediatric Respirtory Medicine, educating people regarding prevention is crucial in minimizing the spread of the disease. Being aware and maintaining a good respiratory hygiene can go a long way towards controlling the spread of the disease. 
Influenza is highly infectious within the first 7 days after symptoms develop. In preventing the spread of droplets, its important to remember that a cough can carry droplets a distance of roughly three feet. Therefore, if you are having symptoms like cough, fever and runny nose then it is important to wear a face mask and avoid public places where you can spread the disease to others. Small children having flu symptoms should be kept at home until the symptoms subside. 
All those who come in contact with the virus do not develop symptoms, explained the doctor. The majority would have no symptoms at all while the others would develop symptom ranging from a mild disease to pneumonia. Those who are at the extremes of age, Children under 2 years of age and elderly over 65 years of age, are more likely to develop a severe illness. Among these children, those having chronic diseases or diseases in organs like the heart or the kidneys are more susceptible. Pregnant women as well as adults, who are suffering from chronic illnesses and having weakened immune systems, are also more vulnerable. If a person belongs to the above categories, its important to seek medical attention as soon as the symptoms appear, cautioned Dr. Gunathilake. Patients who are having high fever or respiratory difficulty at any stage of the disease need to seek urgent medical care, he advised. 
Whenever a person develops a cough and cold, and even if its a viral illness, patients expect antibiotics to be prescribed. They demand antibiotics from the doctor or sometimes self-medicate themselves after obtaining medicine from pharmacies.
Patients who are having mild symptoms can usually be safely managed at home with adequate hydration bed rest and paracetamol being given for the fever, said the doctor. 
Secondary Infections cause more harm than influenza
The majority of those who are aware and taking precautions against influenza believe that its the primary disease or the influenza that causes severe illness and death in patients. This is not so, according to the many specialists that the Daily Mirror consulted. All of them agree that while influenza can sometimes cause pneumonia and other severe disease, its usually the secondary bacterial infections that arrive after developing pneumonia which causes more harm to the patients. 
Damage caused to the respiratory tract by the influenza virus makes it easier for the other bacteria to enter and cause infections, explained Dr. Gunathilake, further stating that these can be more difficult to manage than the virus itself. Therefore he cautioned patients to be on the lookout for secondary infections after a viral infection of the respiratory tract. These infections usually appear as fever reappearing 4/5 days after subsiding of other symptoms, he commented. 
Lack of guidance on how to address the present situation
D. D. K. Wickra,chchi Matara Divisional Secretary
When inquired into the initiatives taken by the Government to address the current health problem in the country, Matara Divisional Secretary D. D. K. Wickramaarachchi said that the Government had taken measures to close the primary schools with the onset of the viral flu. These schools were scheduled to be reopened yesterday (May 30). According to Wickramaarachchi, classroom sessions were conducted as usual for students in other grades although a significant drop was witnessed in the number of students who were present. Plying along the Pasgoda, Kotapola and Kamburupitiya roads, I noticed that there were only around four to five students in school vans that can usually accommodate around twenty. These were students who were returning home from school and the number was very low compared to the number of students one may observe in a school van on a regular day. 
There is a general fear in sending children to school under the prevailing situation. It has reached a point where the Karapitiya Hospital is no longer receiving additional child patients to the childrens ward in the hospital. My personal view on the matter is that its better to close the schools at least until the health authorities issue an official announcement, stating that the prevailing disease situation has been brought under control in the country. To my knowledge, I believe that the Ministry of Health has still not made any official statement regarding the disease. However, it should be noted that even in Matara, there is a general fear that the disease might spread. Currently we are facing a problem due to the lack of proper guidance on how to address the present situation Wickramaarachchi said. 
The Ministrys silence is causing undue panic among thecitizens
Stating that there are five main hospitals in the south comprising the main hospitals of Karapitiya Teaching Hospital in Galle, the Teaching Hospital in Maha Modara, General Hospital in Matara, Labima Hospital in Kotawila and the District General Hospital in Hambanthota, Wickramaarachchi continued that statistically, it is difficult to assume how many patients with the virus have been admitted to these hospitals. Also, it is certainly not within my purview or knowledge to statistically determine the number of patients currently admitted to the hospitals for treatment.
Nevertheless, children have been advised to wear a mask to avoid contracting the disease. But, its equally important to ensure that these masks are worn by them in the correct manner to avoid the spread of the disease. On the other hand, there is speculation that the influenza disease might spread again in the months of July and August although this needs to be verified since the information is coming from unofficial sources. Also, given that this is the rainy season, now there prevails a risk of dengue spreading in the locality. As a country, we have not impressed enough weight on this matter despite it being a burning social issue that needs to be addressed immediately he concluded. 
 
		
==============================
## Title: Enterprise Sri Lanka: Govt. to invest Rs.80bn
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 31 May 2018 09:25 pm
Enterprise Sri Lanka: Govt. to invest Rs.80bn
	
The government will invest some Rs.80 billion in developing rural roads, rural markets, and other public facilities, Finance Minister Mangala Samaraweera said.
He said the Gampereliya scheme will be the primary focus of the governments economic agenda over the next 24 months. The first Gamperaliya exhibition will be organised in Monaragala on August 16 followed by Anuradhapura and Jaffna.
At a function held on Wednesday he said in the Budget speech last November, he presented Enterprise Sri Lanka scheme based on the governments 2025 vision document, to create a new entrepreneur class, recalling our history as a trading and a commercial hub in the ancient times.
The Ministersaidfor the Past decade our economic growth was dominated by the domestic sectorand exports reduced to 12% of GDP in 2014 whileFDI stagnated.
Therefore,this economic model resulted in the creation of growing external liabilities whilst external assets and inflows were dwindling. Government revenue was falling for decades to reach one of the lowest in the world. Debt servicing exceeded the total government revenue. The effects of previous borrowing will be felt more severely in the time to come. More than 75% of government debt servicing during 2019-2022 will be due to maturing or bunching of debt obtained prior to 2015, he said.
Minister Samaraweera said the 'Enterprise Sri Lanka loan schemes will be ceremonially launched by the President and the Prime Minister at the BMICHon June22.
These schemes will target the most productive investment sectors. It is private enterprise that is created and expanded through these programmes which will drive Sri Lankas future growth. In addition to the revival of private investment driven by Enterprise Sri Lanka, it is necessary for the state to invest directly in the rural economy. Towards this end, the government will also be introducing the rapid rural infrastructure investment scheme, GAMPERALIYA. This includes the rehabilitation of over 22,000 rural tanks which will have a major impact on agricultural productivity and agricultural incomes that have suffered during the previous droughts, he said. 
 
		
==============================
## Title: Familys role in building a caring society
## Section: Opinion
## Date: 31 May 2018 12:00 am
Familys role in building a caring society
	
June begins tomorrow and for whatever reason it is traditionally regarded as the month of brides. Indian philosopher Rabindranath Tagore has lamented that for the past few centuries in India, marriage has become a form of glorified prostitution. He points out that the parents themselves put their daughters on sale -- something like Rs.1 million for an accountant, two million for a lawyer and four for a medical doctor. This crisis prevails in Sri Lanka also and especially during the past four decades, after we swallowed the globalised capitalist market economic concept, it is not only the dowry problem but also a trend towards spending several lakhs if not millions of rupees on weddings. Facing a bad example set by the rich elites -- with their wealth obtained by legal or illegal means -- even middle class and lower middle class families borrow lakhs of rupees or pawn family jewellery to be used for a lavish wedding ceremony. For months or years later the parents or the couple face additional problems in repaying that loan. Wedding-planning companies have also been set up to add to the expenses with some now even using drones to send greetings. 
Thankfully, some enlightened families or couples have opted for a simple wedding without gold, glamour or glitter. Realistically we all know that a good marriage does not depend on a five-star wedding banquet but on selfless love and a sacrificial spirit towards each other. 
Important events such as these and the way we celebrate them need to be part of our reflection for the Global Day of Parents which we mark tomorrow. Whatever a self-centred society may say or whatever major religions do not stress, it is the parents who play the key role in guiding the children in the values and virtues of a simple and humble lifestyle. We are reminded of one Indian couple who had received millions from their parents for a lavish wedding. Instead they decided to have a simple wedding and donate millions to Mother Theresas Missionaries of Charity. They used the money to care for thousands of abandoned children and others. What a wonderful blessing for the couple and those who were helped by their golden donation.
Young people, keenly interested in revolutions need to understand that a simple wedding without gold or five-star receptions, is a social revolution which will benefit thousands of others. 
According to the United Nations, the Global Day of Parents is observed on June 1 every year. The Day was proclaimed by the UN General Assembly in 2012 and honours parents throughout the world. The Global Day provides an opportunity to appreciate parents in all parts of the world for their selfless commitment to children and their lifelong sacrifice towards nurturing this relationship.
Since the 1980s, the important role of the family has increasingly come to the attention of the international community. The General Assembly adopted several resolutions, and proclaimed the International Year of the Family and the International Day of Families.
Emphasizing the critical role of parents in the rearing of children, the Global Day of Parents recognizes also that the family has the primary responsibility for the nurturing and protection of children. For the full and harmonious development of their personality, children should grow up in a family environment and in an atmosphere of happiness, love and understanding, the UN says. 
According to the UN, the central goals of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development adopted by the world leaders in 2015, focus on ending poverty, promoting shared economic prosperity, social development and peoples well-being while protecting the environment. Families remain at the centre of social life ensuring the well-being of their members, educating and socializing children and youth and caring for young and old.
In particular, family-oriented policies can contribute to the achievement of Sustainable Development Goals 1 to 5 relating to doing away with poverty and hunger; ensuring healthy lives and promoting of well-being for all ages; ensuring educational opportunities throughout the lifespan and achieving gender equality.
Therefore while governments need to play their roles with their leaders being gifted with honesty and integrity and the spirit of selfless, sacrificial and sincere service to the people, families also need to play their roles in bringing about a just, peaceful and all inclusive society. 
 
		
==============================
## Title: Gota's FR petition: Two more SC judges recuse from Bench
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 31 May 2018 08:47 pm
Gota's FR petition: Two more SC judges recuse from Bench
	
Two more Supreme Court Judges today recused themselves from hearing the fundamental rights petition filed by former defence secretary Gotabaya Rajapaksa.
The petition seeks an order from Court to stop the police arresting him in connection with several investigations and a declaration that the gazette notification by the FCID is beyond its legal power or authority.
The case was taken up by a Bench comprising Justices Priyantha Jayawardane, Vijith Malalgoda and Murdu N.B. Fernando.
The court directed the Registrar not to list the before the Bench of Eva Wanasundera, Buwaneka Aluvihara, Priyantha Jayawardane and Murdu Fernando and fixed the hearing on November 27.
When the case was taken up on October 24, Justice Eva Wanasundera declined to be a member of the Bench.
When petition came up on March 13, the Additional Solicitor General informed court that the investigation against Mr. Rajapaksa was continuing and that if there was a cognizable offence, the integral part of such an offence had a mandatory requirement to arrest.
The ASG appearing for the respondents and the Attorney General told Court that the interim order preventing the FCID from arresting him granted on May 13, 2015 was still in operation.
When the petition was first taken up on for support for granting leave to proceed, Justice Buwaneka Aluvihara declined to be a member of the Bench and the two-judge bench comprising Justices Eva Wanasundera and Sarath de Abrew granted an interim order preventing the FCID and others from arresting Mr. Rajapaksa in connection with an alleged financial crime.
The petitioner cited Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe and the members of the Cabinet, Secretary to the Cabinet, Secretary to the President, IGP N.K. Ilangakoon, CID Director B.R.S.R. Nagahamulla, FCID DIG Ravi Waidyalankara and the Attorney General as respondents.
Romesh de Silva PC with Ali Sabry PC, Sugath Caldera and Sanath Wijewardane are appearing for the petitioner while K. Kanag Iswaran PC with Suren Fernando are appearing for the Prime Minister. Additional Solicitor General Yasantha Kothagoda is appearing for the respondents.(S.S. Selvanayagam)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Habitat for Humanity Sri Lanka constructs 37 homes through Kalutara Housing Project
## Section: Press Releases
## Date: 31 May 2018 09:59 am
Habitat for Humanity Sri Lanka constructs 37 homes through Kalutara Housing Project
	
A Habitat Home newly constructed through the Kalutara Housing Project

abitat for Humanity Sri Lanka celebrated the completion of the Kalutara Housing Project on 25th April 2018 at a ceremony held in Halkandawila, Kalutara. Habitat Sri Lanka was able to provide 37 homes for low-income families in two villages in Kalutara through this unique housing project which was sponsored by an individual donor from Colombo, who was inspired to donate to Habitat Sri Lanka having realized that she wanted to support low-income families who were in urgent need of homes. While the construction of all 37 homes was supported by the individual donor, the Catholic Archdiocese of Colombo donated 8 perches of land to each family towards the construction of these homes.
A typical Habitat house is designed to be a 550 square foot house which contains two bedrooms, a living room, kitchen, toilet and verandah. The low-income families selected to receive homes through this housing project previously lived in single room temporary wooden huts with little to no protection from adverse weather conditions and intruders. These two communities are also highly susceptible to flooding and landslides caused by heavy rains and strong winds which occur during monsoon periods.
One of the 37 beneficiary families who are able to begin a new life in their Habitat home.
All 37 homes of the Kalutara Housing Project are lockable houses which have been designed to include disaster resilient features to minimize the risk of future disasters such as floods in accordance with the standards of the NBRO. The houses were built following a unique agency driven approach, with homeowner families contributing their unskilled labour towards the construction of their Habitat home. Habitat for Humanity refers to this unique process as sweat equity.
The Kalutara Housing Project has successfully supported more than 42 families and has thereby provided 162 individuals and 70 children with a safe and decent place to call their home. The sanitation facilities provided through this project has also promoted safe and healthy hygiene practices among these communities.
One of the beneficiaries of the Kalutara Housing Project; Vajira, remarked This Habitat home is so much more than a house to my family  it is a relief to an otherwise difficult life, since I am the only income generator. At least now I can go to work knowing that my family is safe under our own roof.
Yu Hwa Li  National Director of Habitat Sri Lanka opening a home at the Kalutara Housing Project Handover Ceremony
While addressing the gathering at the home dedication ceremony, Habitat for Humanity Sri Lankas National Director; Mr. Yu Hwa Li remarked, The homes that Habitat for Humanity builds for these families, go far beyond being a strong foundation with walls around it  it is the beginning of a new life that will be a source of strength to a family and many generations to come. Mr. Li also thanked the donors, volunteers and all individuals who have worked tirelessly to make this project a success and encouraged the community to protect their new homes and environment by being conscious about solid waste management at a community level.
Habitat homeowner families who received safe and decent homes through the Kalutara Housing Project.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Its time to treasure your heart !
## Section: News Features
## Date: 31 May 2018 12:00 am
Its time to treasure your heart !
	
Some smoke it to relieve stress, but for others its already a habit or quite dangerously a norm. Had it been a useful drug, it would have cured millions of people. But its a killer that takes your life before you become aware of the fact that its too late. Cigarettes, the only legalized product, that kills people when used in the way its supposed to be, continues to cause more harm to the society. As a result of being backed by a powerful industry, bringing down the consumption of tobacco is still a challenge faced by the authorities. Given that this is a country that appreciates and promotes healthy living, smoking now stands as a movable barrier, thanks to proper interventions. May 31 marks World No Tobacco Day and it will be celebrated this year under the theme Tobacco and Heart Disease. In view of this special event, several programmes have been organized to spearhead a mission and help people to quit this habit. 
Progress in Sri Lanka
According to National Authority on Tobacco and Alcohol (NATA) Chairman Dr.Palitha Abeykoon the main focus has been on the work with regard to preventing the harm from tobacco use in general; more particularly from cigarettes and some forms of smokeless tobacco. On the whole, considering what we said 15 years ago, Sri Lanka has been reasonably successful in reducing tobacco use when compared to several other countries within the Southeast Asian region, he said in an interview with the Daily Mirror. We have been successful, both in terms of reducing the prevalence with cigarettes as well as getting some of the legislation that is required to control the tobacco epidemic in place. The global work that has continued in the tobacco control field and working within an organized legal framework began only after implementing what is now called the Framework Convention on Tobacco Control (FCTC).
This was in 2003 and Sri Lanka was the first to sign it in our region apart form being the fourth to ratify it. The NATA was established by Parliament in 2006, but commenced functioning as an institution in 2007. During Professor Carlo Fonsekas time, when he was a Government Servant, much legislation, such as a ban on advertisements promoting tobacco products and other approaches, were introduced. Since then we have been able to monitor the consumption of tobacco and brought down the prevalence of regular cigarette use to about 14-15% through small and larger scale surveys such as STEPs carried out by the World Health Organisation (WHO). This is a significant achievement when compared to Bhutan, where the sale and production of cigarettes are totally banned but tobacco products are smuggled in to the country. But our target is to bring down the prevalence of cigarettes use to below 10%, which means we will be considered as a country where tobacco isnt a public health problem according to the guidelines of WHO. Its still a problem, but it hasnt become an epidemic. In this regard, during the past few years, we have been able to enact legislation on various features such as advertising, pictorial warnings, sales to minors, promotions and smokeless and illicit tobacco. The FCTC has 14 different provisions where legislative enactment is possible which is fairly good, said Dr.Abeykoon.
This years theme for the World No Tobacco Day is Tobacco and Heart Disease and its appropriate for us because of the 25,000 deaths that take place in Sri Lanka due to direct or indirect use of tobacco
The heart: The most valuable organ
The picture painted about the tobacco industry is extremely attractive to the point where even the Government believes that it generates more income and is profitable. Tobacco consumption taxes the budget due to the rise in public health cost and loss of productivity, Dr.Abeykoon continued. People would feel ill and with absenteeism, early mortality and hardships faced by the family, the economic and social costs are tremendous. Now we have solid evidence and several other developed countries such as Australia and Brazil have done research. The tobacco companies make profit and not the Government. This years theme for the World No Tobacco Day is Tobacco and Heart Disease and its appropriate for us because of the 25,000 deaths that take place in Sri Lanka due to direct or indirect use of tobacco. Almost 20% of these deaths are caused by some sort of cardiovascular problem. The heart includes the heart itself and conditions such as stroke and peripheral vascular diseases are caused by hypertension etc. These diseases are complex and we must not forget the fact that tobacco is a harmful product which affects all organs. The heart in Sinhalese is termed hardhawasthuwa which is literally described as a treasure within the body and there is no other organ sharing the same etymology. Therefore its the most valuable organ in the body. If tobacco is affecting the heart and if 20% of the people are affected by tobacco I think its something that we need to take seriously. We have gotten together with the College of Cardiologists, Paediatricians, GMOA, Police and several other organisations to initiate a couple of programmes, he said.
Speaking further, the doctor said that surprisingly there are 50 towns in Sri Lanka which dont sell cigarettes. Its quite a remarkable outcome because once people realize the harm caused by this product, which even affects the baby in a mothers womb if you are with a husband who smokes, people realize the consequences. If you look at the increasing number of cancers in the country its evident that a mutation exists somewhere and the carcinogens in tobacco are the main causes behind the indirect inhalation of tobacco. Even the cultivation and disposal of tobacco adds to this problem. There is no other product which kills you once you use it the way the manufacturer asks you to use it,he affirmed.
Myth yet to be busted
In many encounters people relate how smoking relieves stress. But in reality, it doesnt relieve any stress. According to Dr.Abeykoon smoking relieving stress is a myth. Its a message promoted in terms of marketing the product, he added. Smoking gets you addicted to it and the stress part vanishes. Theres peer pressure and other devious means of promoting the product, but this happens through the subtle communication among the tobacco companies. In reality, tobacco increases your stress by increasing your heart rate etc. Once you start smoking theres a chemical change where the nucleus in the brain gets activated and gives a pleasurable sensation which is the same in the case of ingesting heroin and other drugs as well. Ultimately the brain will start demanding that it needs to be stimulated. Breaking it isnt difficult and it needs a little will and help. There are many ways in which we could help people to drop this harmful habit. Back in the late 60s and 70s practically every male student used to smoke because people didnt know the consequences of smoking then, not forgetting that it was a fashionable affair. During the past 20 years the Sri Lankan society fell prey to this habit, but we now realize that children in schools dont smoke that much. During the past five or six years we did two Global Youth Tobacco Surveys for the benefit of school of children between ages 14 and 17 which has brought down smoking from 4%-2% between 2011 and 2016. This is indeed a good sign, he said.
The numbers game
In order to prompt people to buy cigarettes the companies would go to any extent, Dr.Abeykoon warned. They even increase the price like how it happened recently. Taxation was one of the lowest till 2016 and while the other countries were able to maintain it at a level that helped increase per capita income and inflation, the Sri Lankan tobacco companies were successful in getting the Finance Ministry officials to not believe in it. A cigarette was very much cheaper until the tax increase in 2016 compared to 2000. In 2000, with the average per capita income of a person which was around USD 800, one could buy around 8900 cigarettes. In 2015 when we knew that tobacco should be curtailed we could buy 10,500 cigarettes. Therefore although the price of the cigarette gradually increased it did keep up with the income of the people and the disposable income of the population. Therefore cigarettes actually became cheaper. The 2016 taxation measure brought it on par with the 2000 level. The only product that didnt have a Value Added Tax (VAT) was tobacco. Your childs food, the bread you eat and everything else had a VAT, but they managed to take it away from tobacco. We should be able to eliminate the consumption of cigarettes and not consider it as a public health problem in another 10 years, but it looks like this might be too late. This means that 250,000 people have died unnecessarily and we need to bring down the consumption of tobacco products immediately, he warned.
Guarantee of harm versus warranty of rescue
He further said that tobacco is a good crop to grow from an economic standpoint since its controlled tightly by the tobacco companies. They give loans, technical advice and fertiliser and there is a total by-back guarantee, so no one would want to move away from it, added Dr.Abeykoon. Farmers are willing to invest in alternative crops provided that they receive an equal income. But because children in schools learn about the harmful effects of smoking, adults are trying to refrain from smoking. But 960 hectares of tobacco farms were taken out and this is a good start. In time to come we hope that 10-15% of lands will not be used for tobacco farming. Its easy to start treatment on chain smokers once they develop a chest pain. While people would deny facts regarding the harm caused through smoking, they also feel the pressure applied by their close associates as well. But given a choice they would want to kick this habit. One-on-one approaches are one of the most effective ways of helping a person to quit smoking. If you write down the amount of money spent on cigarettes in comparison to the money you need to purchase an essential item for your house, the former clearly is a useless investment. People should have the desire to stop the consumption of tobacco and its important to create this desire, he said.
In conclusion, Dr. Abeykoon stressed on the importance of committing people to make May 31 a No Tobacco Day in the literal sense of the word. This means not to smoke or chew tobacco and most importantly not to sell these products. Although its a legitimate product, a humble appeal is being made from sellers to refrain from selling tobacco on this day. 
(If you still dont have the determination and courage to quit your habits, simply dial the quitline 1948 for expert assistance)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Jana and janapriya: The content of the culture
## Section: News Features
## Date: 31 May 2018 12:00 am
Jana and janapriya: The content of the culture
	
The young who take to Sanuka, and do not take to Amaradeva, and the old who take to the latter and not to the former, are at the end of the day the one and the same. The rift between these two demographics goes beyond just age differences. But how do you separate the one from the other By the following yardstick: those who dote on Sanuka are purveyors of the popular culture, while those who dote on Amaradeva are purveyors of the formal culture.
By formal, I am distinguishing it from the tastes of those who follow, and subscribe to, the music of Lionel Ranwala, Piyasiri Wijeratne, and from more recent times, Rohana Baddage and Bandula Wijeweera. As such we come across a differentiation: between janapriya for popular, and jana for what we consider to be the folk culture, though it is, in fact, a formalised variant thereof. 
This distinction is vital when we delve into the cultural, social, economic, and political backdrops to those cultures. I have tried to the best of my ability to rationalise those backdrops and their relation to the art forms consumed by those who hailed from them - especially regarding the petty bourgeoisie - but based on the responses I got I was not, I believe now, clear enough. The truth is that Sri Lankas predicament, economic or social, can be rooted in its inability to prop up an able bourgeoisie who could be to their culture what the liberal Bengalis had been to theirs in their Renaissance. The bourgeoisie, through syndicates, cartels, and other schemes which ended up creating what Kumari Jayawardena refers to as a dynastic democracy in Sri Lanka, took off from taverns and tolls and rents but never made it beyond a pre-industrial economy. 
When the landowning aristocracy of a colonial society - particularly a society like ours or Indias - gains through capitalist enterprise, the conflict between their interests and those of the Colonial Office tend to deepen to such an extent that the former begin to protest; eventually, their protests find an equivalent in the cultural sphere through the literature of that period. Thus in Bengal we find the novels of Bankim Chatterjee, which like the novels of W. A. Silva were rooted in the romances of Walter Scott and Rider Haggard. In Sri Lanka, on the other hand, the interests of the propertied class and of the Colonial Office were one and the same. Macaulay, in his bid to turn the natives into brown sahibs (English in tastes, in opinions, in morals, and in intellect), had brought about in Sri Lanka what he could not bring about in India: the creation of a Westernised, civilised bourgeoisie whose loyalty to the Empire was beyond doubt. As such the militant nationalist liberal bourgeoisie in India were never to be found in Ceylon, and as Tissa Abeysekara notes, we had no Motilal Nehru who could burn his Saville Row suits as a disavowal of Western tastes, opinions, morals, and intellect. 
What we had, instead, was a powerful but stymied milieu, petty bourgeoisie in their tastes and opinions and what not, and aspiring to be a nationalist bourgeoisie. The traditional elite  the sangha, veda, guru, and govi of Bandaranaikes pancha maha balavegaya (kamkaru was an addition necessitated by the rise of labour in the 20th century; they had no elite status in traditional society)  were superseded by a moneyed class, who in turn sought to overcome and overturn the old Mudliyars and Muhandirams whom the British had hitherto privileged. As scholars, including Professor Jayawardena, have noted, just as there was a division between the privileged gentry and these new capitalist upstarts, there was also a division within the latter class. Between the cautious conservatism of D. B. Jayatilake, D. S. Senanayake, and the founders (most of them, at least) of the Temperance Movement and the activism and at times chauvinistic rhetoric of Anagarika Dharmapala, for instance, there was a virtually unbridgeable chasm. (The fact that Dharmapala was never allowed in as a member of the Abstinence Union is a sign of this rift, which grew over the years.) 
The art forms which this milieu, particularly the more nationalistic among them, affirmed and purveyed were hybridised, though not always so: they watched the plays of John de Silva and Charles Dias and read the novels of Piyadasa Sirisena. It would be a mistake to consider these as urban artists and writers, but their appeal was broadly of an urban, quasi-sophisticated (because hybrid) kind. It was not the praja shalawa in a village where these artists gathered, but the Tower Hall at Maradana, which over the years became a rallying point for patriotism to such an extent that the then Inspector-General of Police, H. L. Dowbiggin, wrote that he believed that de Silvas plays were produced with the object of creating a spirit of nationalism. The Tower Hall was not restricted to the elite, but they opened up, not to the peasantry per se, but instead to the Sinhalese-speaking lower middle class and the urban workers: in short, the milieu which has historically been at the forefront of social and political upheavals elsewhere, particularly in continental Europe. It cannot be said that the peasantry, for whom art was not something to go out and watch after paying for a ticket, werent affected by this surge of patriotism in the cultural sphere, but the impact of these works of art would have been felt acutely by a more urbane milieu. 
Regi Siriwardena called this a belated and weak bourgeoisie, approximating to a trading and handicraft petty bourgeoisie, whose stand was less against imperialism (though they were radical anti-imperialists) than against their Tamil and Muslim counterparts (whose business interests were never aligned with theirs: the 1915 riots, for instance, surged once some railway workers had an argument with a neighbouring tea kiosk owner, a Muslim, after he had decided to raise the price of a cup of tea). They were, simply put, neither here nor there. They needed a guiding star, in fact a searchlight, to help them come to terms with themselves and with what they wanted to become later on. That guiding star and searchlight, who deserves treatment elsewhere, was Anagarika Dharmapala. Shed away his racist invectives, his controversial slogans aimed at the Tamils and the Muslims, and you come across the only real militant nationalist from the bourgeoisie who envisioned a self-sufficient, industrialised economy. (This aspect to the Anagarika has never properly been examined.) 
On the other hand, the nationalist revival which transpired after the intrusion of the Theosophists on the one hand and British rationalism on the other (where Henry Steel Olcott and Robert Ingersoll met was where the Buddhist rationalist movement began; to this day, we have leading intellectuals who equate the one with the other, a legacy of the historical coincidence of faith and scepticism during the revival) needed the help and support of the newly emerging bourgeoisie. George Bonds account of the Buddhist revival and the ideological splits and amalgamations (The Buddhist Revival in Sri Lanka) is useful for those who wish to examine how the bourgeoisie were at once with, and against, the political consequences of the movement: how, for instance, the more conservative elements of the Ceylon National Congress, including Jayatilake and Senanayake, were in favour of a division between the clergy and the laity, as a means of preserving certain vested privileges (which is not, by the way, an indictment on these people, venerated as heroes today), while the Anagarika clearly was not. 
Added to this was another phenomenon: while the British sought to do away with remnants of the past in their colonies, and especially in India and Sri Lanka (being the Crown Colonies we unfortunately were), they could not do away with the exotic elements of that past. The Kandyan dress, the perahera, the caste-ism so rampant in the days of the kings, remained more or less as they were, with slight modifications. As the bourgeoisie evolved from the betel bag to the coffee store (Spence Hardy), they did not or could not let go of these familiar, archaic elements of the same culture they were now, thanks to their willingness to be Westernised, ostensibly repudiating. This rather strange dichotomy  repudiation versus affirmation  continues with the descendants of this bourgeoisie: you see it every time a member of that class, while welcoming a political sphere free of myths and lies, jaunts off to a temple or kovil, no matter how uncomfortably misaligned they are in those places, to perform a baaraya. 
Perhaps because of their cultural conditioning, no matter how hard they tried, the bourgeoisie were unable to be the brown sahibs they tried to be. (The closest to a Macaulay the colonies produced was a Sinhalese: Dandris de Silva Gunaratna, who was praised by Macaulay himself as being his closest imitator.) They could not think on their own, and in not being able to think on their own, they couldnt produce a culture of their own, barring the habits and customs of the British they aped. This necessitated a catalogue of cultural objects, and those objects, which required sponsorship, were sponsored lavishly by them. Initially, the help they provided extended to the building of temples, libraries, and hospitals, and were done out of a need to appear honourable in front of the British (to gain knighthoods). As time passed, and as their offspring began to rebel against their conservatism, this supportive streak eventually shifted and congealed to a colossal revival of cultural artefacts. From Dandris de Silva to Charles Jacob Peiris, and from Charles Jacob Peiris to Amaradeva, you come across a gradual, but radical, transformation: from the anglicised crust of the bourgeoisie to the indigenous, but sophisticated, roots of the petty bourgeoisie. 
UDAKDEV1@GMAIL.COM 
 
		
==============================
## Title: JO decides to oppose 20A
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 31 May 2018 07:51 am
JO decides to oppose 20A
	
The hierarchy of the joint opposition unanimously decided yesterday to oppose the 20th Amendment to the Constitution proposed by the JVP to abolish the Executive Presidency, an official said.
These discussions took place when they met former President Mahinda Rajapaksa.
Initially, there were differences of opinion. However, they reached a consensus that they should oppose the move undertaken by the JVP. They took the position that the constitution should not be amended in such a piecemeal manner.
Additionally, it was observed that there was a move to postpone elections along with this exercise. (Kelum Bandara)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Karu's intervention saved Keith
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 31 May 2018 07:01 am
Karu's intervention saved Keith
	
Senior State Counsel Lakmini Girihagama appearing on behalf of the Attorney General (AG) yesterday informed Mount Lavina Magistrates Court that the statement which had been recorded from Speaker Karu Jayasuriya by the CID mentioned that Journalist Keith Noyahr's life was saved because of his intervention.
According to the statement by Speaker Karu Jayasuriya, who was a Cabinet Minister at that time, he had phoned former President Mahinda Rajapaksa and told him that he would make a statement and resign from the Cabinet if anything happened to Mr Noyahr.
SSC Girihagama also informed Court that the statement further mentioned that Karu Jayasuriya was the Minister of Public Administration at the time of the incident and he had been the first person to inform former President Mahinda Rajapaksa to secure the release of Keith Noyahr.
"The statement, which had been recorded by the CID from the Speaker, stated that he had come to know about the abduction of the journalist from former Rivira Newspaper CEO Krishantha Cooray and former Nation Newspaper Editor Lalith Alahakoon," she informed Court.
When the case was taken up in Court, SSC Girihagama also informed the Magistrate that the statement which was recorded from the eighth suspect, General Amal Karunasekara, had revealed that there was no communication between him and former Army Commander General Sarath Fonseka related to the abduction of Keith Noyahr.
She also requested the Magistrate to further remand the eighth suspect because the CID had to record further statements from him.
Accordingly, Mount Lavinia Additional Magistrate Lochana Abeywickrama ordered General Karunasekara to be further remanded until June 13.
General Karunasekara was arrested on April 5 by the CID in connection with the abduction and assault of Journalist Keith Noyahr in 2008. He was the Director of Military Intelligence at that time.
The CID arrested eight suspects along with Major Bulathwatte of the Military Intelligence Corps, in connection with the same case. (Yoshitha Perera)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Lasantha killing: 2nd suspect made 3-hr-long statement
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 31 May 2018 07:09 pm
Lasantha killing: 2nd suspect made 3-hr-long statement
	
Former Mount Lavinia Police Crime OIC, Sub-Inspector Tissa Sugathapala made a 3-hour-long confidential statement to the Mount Lavinia Chief Magistrate this evening.
He is the second suspect arrested in connection with the killing of Sunday Leader Editor Lasantha Wickramatunga (Yoshitha Perera)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Legal action against overstaying SL workers in Israel
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 31 May 2018 05:00 am
Legal action against overstaying SL workers in Israel
	
Legal actions would be institute against 104 Sri Lankan migrant workers overstaying their visas in Israel, Foreign Employment Deputy Minister Manusha Nanayakkara said yesterday.
Deputy Minister Nanayakkara said sixty cases had already been filed in Courts with this regard and added that preparations were ongoing to file another thirty cases against these Sri Lankan illegal migrant workers.
As an initial step to take legal action, letters of demand have been sent to nine such illegal migrant workers.
However, five migrant workers have returned to Sri Lanka after the commencement of taking legal actions against them by the Sri Lankan Government, he said.
These youths were sent abroad through the Sri Lanka Foreign Employment Agency (SLFEA) for employment in the agricultural sector. They were sent on six months contract, he added.
He said, however, some of those workers were overstaying their visas in Israel, following the conclusion of their employment contracts.
He also said diplomatic announcement had been made in this regard and added that the Government would take action to deport them from Israel to Sri Lanka.
Workers, who are returning to Sri Lanka following the six-month period, can again go to Israel for employment, he said. (Kalathma Jayawardhane)
 
		
==============================
## Title: New Colombo map released
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 31 May 2018 05:50 pm
New Colombo map released
	
Surveyor General P.M.P. Udayakantha today issued a new map of Colombo which consists an additional two square kilometer land of the Colombo Port City. AFP
 
		
==============================
## Title: Nine young professionals will represent Sri Lanka at the Cannes Lions Festival
## Section: Press Releases
## Date: 31 May 2018 04:16 pm
Nine young professionals will represent Sri Lanka at the Cannes Lions Festival
	

A team of nine dynamic young professionals from Sri Lankas marketing communications industry, were recently selected to compete at the Young Lions Competitions, which will take place at the Cannes Lions International Festival of Creativity in France this June. This years local competition, was conducted by the IAA Sri Lanka Chapter under the auspices of Metal Factor. This is the 11th successive year that this competition has been conducted in Sri Lanka by Metal Factor who is the Sri Lanka Representative for the Cannes Lions festival.

After a rigorous evaluation process, three teams emerged victorious at the local Young Lions Competition. This years winners in the Media category are Sanoj Fernando and Dulanjali Gunawardane from Ogilvy Media. The PR category was won by Maheshi Dunuwilage and Chanchala Gunewardena from Bates Strategic Alliance, whilst Tara Weerasinghe and Aadhil Izath of Dentsu Grants were selected as the winners in the Print category. This years Young Marketers Competition was won by Chamindri Gunawardane and Arshad Mohideen of Softlogic Life PLC and Dilushi Prasanna from the Academy of Design was selected to attend the Roger Hatchuel Academy.

A total of 96 professionals participated in the local competition. The winning teams will now travel to France to compete on a global stage at Cannes. Heralded as the Olympics of the advertising world, the Young Lions Competitions and the Cannes Lions International Festival, draw the very best talent from all corners of the globe. The competitions run across multiple categories and provide youth in the industry with a once-in-a-life time opportunity to compete against each other, whilst learning and broadening their horizons at the same time.

Commenting on this years competition,  Laila Gunasekera  President, IAA stated, For the 11th year, Sri Lankas top young professionals will represent our country at the Cannes Lions International Festival of Creativity. The festival and Young Lions Competitions serve as an extremely important platform for our youth - who will play a pivotal role in taking our industry forward. At the festival, our teams will receive valuable exposure and acquire new skills and insights, which they will be able to use, to infuse a fresh burst of creativity into the local industry. They will be able to learn from and interact with movers and shakers of the advertising world, who are redefining the global communications landscape. The experience will certainly have a profound impact on their professional growth. We wish them all the very best at the festival.

Also commenting, Ranil de Silva, Founder of Metal Factor said: "We are proud to continue our tradition of sending Sri Lanka's top young professionals to compete at the Cannes Young Lions competitions. The Cannes Lions International Festival of Creativity is the world's most prestigious advertising festivals. At the Cannes Young Lions Competitions, our teams will be able to showcase their skills and knowledge in a global competition. I have no doubt that they will make our industry and country very proud. Metal Factor was launched to help nurture and groom the industry's young talent to help shape the future of the industry. The exposure that our team members will receive will transform them as communications professionals, and give them a professional edge. They will also have a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to learn from the industry's global leaders. The insights they will gain from their time at Cannes, will enable them to contribute to the growth of Sri Lanka's marketing communications industry."

The Sri Lankan competition also drew on the expertise of the countrys leading advertising professionals, who came together to evaluate all of the submissions. This year, the Young Lions programme was judged by a panel comprising Subash Pinnapola, Caryll Van Dort, Russell Miranda, Ralston Joseph, Peter Solomon and Alyna HajiOmar.

The seven Young Lions Competitions held at Cannes are where the next generation of creative stars go head-to-head with each other, all vying for the coveted gold. The programme is only open to professionals who are 30 or under and it is designed to celebrate and unleash the potential of the industrys young talent. Founded in 1954, the Cannes Lions International Festival of Creativity is an eight-day programme that focuses on creative inspiration, celebration, education and networking. Over 15,000 delegates from around 100 countries attend the festival, making it the only truly global meeting-place for communications professionals to connect, share and discover the latest advancements, trends and innovations in the industry. The most coveted creative accolades, The Lions, are also judged and presented at the festival.

Metal Factor the facilitator of the Young Lions Competition in Sri Lanka, was established by renowned advertising professional Ranil de Silva who set up the project as a CSR initiative to support the industry, which has personally rewarding for him. Metal Factor is the Sri Lankan representative for some of the worlds most respected festivals. By its association with these festivals, Metal Factor provides young professionals in Sri Lanka with the opportunity to gain valuable experience by participating in the various competitions. Metal Factor is committed to uplifting the standards of the marketing communications industry in Sri Lanka and is dedicated to helping Sri Lankas ad industry gain global acclaim.

The international Advertising Association (IAA), headquartered in New York, was founded in 1938 to champion responsible marketing. The IAA, with members in over 40 countries, is a one-of-a-kind strategic global partnership comprising advertisers, media, advertising and public relations agencies, media companies and academics. The IAA is a platform for industry issues and is dedicated to protecting and advancing freedom of commercial speech, responsible advertising, consumer choice and the education of marketing professionals. The IAA Sri Lanka Chapter is committed to providing high quality training opportunities, to help support the development of the local advertising industry, whilst ensuring its continuous evolution and progression at large.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Panasian Power PLC enjoys stellar FY18 with a 900% growth in PAT
## Section: Press Releases
## Date: 31 May 2018 10:30 am
Panasian Power PLC enjoys stellar FY18 with a 900% growth in PAT
	
Dr Prathap Ramanujam, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer - Panasian Power, Pathmanatha Poddiwala, General Manager & Executive Director - Panasian Power
Panasian Power PLC (PAP.N), one of Sri Lankas leading green energy solutions providers, posted a profit before tax of Rs. 207.5 million for the year ending 31st March 2018. The company generated Rs. 489 million in revenue for the year against Rs. 205 million the previous year. This was compounded by a healthy gearing for the company at 48%.
The company attributed this stellar growth to the addition of a further 6.3MW to the grid within the financial year as well as to improved operational efficiencies, energy enhancement exercises and prudent cost control practices. With this foundation in place, Panasian intends to further increase its installed capacity in FY2019 through solar and mini hydro power projects.
Furthermore, Panasian was able to record significant growth in revenue through solar power engineering, procurement and construction services (EPC) which constitutes part of their diversification process. The companys investments in rooftop and ground solar plants will result in an additional capacity of 7MW once on grid beginning from 2018.
This diversification into solar comes on the back of the CEBs plan to move away from coal as a source of energy generation and become an energy self-sufficient nation by 2030. According to the CEBs long term power generation plan renewable energy will contribute at least 21.4% towards total power generation by 2025.
In the near term the company will also explore opportunities in wind to eventually create an energy portfolio with equal exposure to all three renewable energy sources. Additionally, Panasian will look at foreign projects, in Africa and South East Asia, with a view to securing dollar revenue streams as well as aggressively reviewing M&A opportunities for future growth. This is in keeping with the companys target of becoming Sri Lankas largest listed renewable energy solutions provider within the next three years.
Commenting on this record financial year Dr Prathap Ramanujam, Chief Executive Officer  Panasian Power, said, We are pleased with our performance in FY2018. We were able to streamline many of our processes and create greater efficiencies within the company. We also looked at both organic and inorganic growth to increase our power generation as we aggressively sought bottom line growth. We also believe that the long term viability of our projects will ensure that our nation will be on track towards becoming energy independent which will help us reduce our foreign exchange outflows and lead towards wider economic development and a better quality of life for its citizens.
Panasian Power PLC, which was incorporated in 2002 owns and operates Mini Hydropower Plants and supplies electricity directly to the Ceylon Electricity Board. In 2017 the company diversified into solar energy to meet its revised target of having an energy portfolio of 30MW by 2020.

 
		
==============================
## Title: PM tells UNPers not to respond to Presidents speech
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 31 May 2018 03:07 pm
PM tells UNPers not to respond to Presidents speech
	
Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe has told UNPers not to respond to the statement made by President Maithripala Sirisena yesterday.
Informed sources said the Premier had said this when he met party members including seniors at the UNP working committee meeting held at Sirikotha this morning and was responding to a suggestion made by young MPs that the party should respond to the President immediately.
The ministers and MPs should not respond to the President but should resolve the problems faced by the people, the Prime Minister had said. (Yohan Perera)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Polish national nabbed with 100 gold biscuits worth Rs.65mn
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 31 May 2018 10:55 am
Polish national nabbed with 100 gold biscuits worth Rs.65mn
	
A 60-year-old Polish national had been arrested with 100 gold biscuits, worth Rs.65 million, this morning at the Bandaranaike International Airport (BIA), Customs Spokesman Deputy Director Sunil Jayarathne said.
He said the suspect, who arrived from Dubai was apprehended by the Customs officers at 8.50 a.m. while attempting to smuggle in the gold biscuits through the Green Channel.
The gold biscuits, weighing 10 kilograms, were found wrapped in his waist belt (girdle) which was specially made to transport gold biscuits, he said.
Smugglers have turned into a new direction to keep up their activities. Following the Customs DGs directive to pay more attention to Indian and Pakistani passengers for gold smuggling, the smugglers are using passengers from Europe or European passengers for smuggling, he said.
The detection was done by Customs Assistant Superintendent Nuwan Abenayake, Sri Lal Wijewardhene and Rasika Samanjith.
Investigations were carried out under the directive of Customs Director O.M Jabeer by Deputy Directors O.J Obeysekera, Vipula Minuvanpitiya and Viraj Wijewardhene along with Customs Superintendents S.H.M. Ibrahim Kamal Seneviratne, Shanthapriya and Assistant Superintendents Ravi Samarasinghe and Sumudu Jayawardene. (Chaturanga Samarawickrama and T.K.G. Kapila)
 
		
==============================
## Title: President himself admits that country is unstable: JO
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 31 May 2018 02:29 pm
President himself admits that country is unstable: JO
	
Referring to the speech delivered by President Maithripala Sirisena at the 76th Birth Anniversary of the Late Ven. Sobitha Therayesterday, Joint Opposition said today the essence of the speech of the President was that he himself admitted the country was not stable.
Addressing a news briefing, JO member and MP Shehan Semasinghe said the President seemed to be frustrated with the way how the Good Governance had run the Government.
The President admits that the Good Governance has been unable to fulfill promises given to the people in 2015. If the President admits that its Government has not met the aspirations of the citizens, he should give up his Presidency and hold the General Elections immediately, Semasinghe said.
The President accuses and criticizes the present Government. It seems the President is not getting the due support from its fellow MPs and hence he has been unable to execute his plans well, Semasinghe added. (Sheain Fernandopulle)

 
		
==============================
## Title: President, PM Security Forces and TNA discuss release of land
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 31 May 2018 06:19 am
President, PM Security Forces and TNA discuss release of land
	
President Maithripala Sirisena, Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe, members of the Tamil National Alliance (TNA) and the Chiefs of the Security Forces discussed on how to expedite release of lands in the North and East.
TNA MP Mavai Senathirajah told the Daily Mirror that his party stressed the need for expediting the release of lands held by the security forces to the rightful civilian owners, when Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe visited the North recently.
Mr Senathirajah said a decision was made to have a broad discussion with the President, and the security forces, while Prime Minister also agreed to participate in it.
We stressed the release of lands as a major issue as it is long overdue. The Government promised to release lands six months after coming into power, but it had not been done although two-and-half years have passed since the Government was elected into office, he said.
Meanwhile, Prime Minister had stated that the Government hoped to go ahead with several projects in the North, including the Palali Regional Airport Development Project, Paranthan Industrial Zone, Kankesanthurai IT Zone and the development of the Pooneryn Town.
He had told Government officials to focus on fulfilling the needs of the people in the North rather than thinking of their facilities.
Some Government officials complain about lack of vehicles and other facilities. We accept that there are shortcomings, but one should focus on fulfilling the needs of the people, he told officials.
A special committee comprising representatives of all Ministries had been appointed to look into the development in the region. (Yohan Perera)
 
		
==============================
## Title: President says MPs received honorariums
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 31 May 2018 09:17 am
President says MPs received honorariums
	
President Maithripala Sirisena is reported to have said at the Cabinet meeting yesterday that the payments made to the Ministers and MPs amounted to be honorariums, and therefore they could not be considered for taxation.
The President reportedly said the MPs had an honorific before their names, and therefore, what they drew from the State could not be seen as salaries but as honorariums.
Honorariums are payments given for professional services that are rendered nominally without charge.
The President made these remarks in the event of some Ministers complaining earlier that they had been made heavily liable for the PAYE Tax (Pay As You Earn Tax). (Kelum Bandara)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Prez statement shows theres no Govt. in the country: MR
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 31 May 2018 11:17 pm
Prez statement shows theres no Govt. in the country: MR
	
Responding to President Maithripala Sirisenas statement made at the 76th commemoration of the late Ven. Sobitha Thera, former President Mahinda Rajapaksa said yesterday the statement showed that there is no government in the country today.
He expressed these views to journalists at an Iftar ceremony held at his residence in Colombo last evening.
Mr. Rajapaksa said continuous speeches made by both the President and the Prime Minister validated that the only solution available to the current issues is the dissolution of Parliament.
The country cannot be developed or taken forward in this manner. The Parliament should be dissolved and a general election should be held to establish a stable government, he said. (Lahiru Pothmulla)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Railway strike to end at 4 p.m.
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 31 May 2018 02:55 pm
Railway strike to end at 4 p.m.
	
The Railway Technical Services Trade Union Committee (RTSTUC) said it had decided to end their 48-hour token strike at 4.00 p.m. today.
TU President P. Sampath Rajitha said there would be a discussion in Parliament regarding the demands of the Trade Union and also the token strike was scheduled to end this evening.
Their 48-hour token strike- from 4.00 p.m on Tuesday (29) was based on demands including the demand for a 12 per cent salary increase to all 12,000 railway employees, who had been earlier granted only to some employees based on favouritism.
The TU also demanded the payment of incentives withheld to employees since 2004.
We hope a favorable decision will be taken after the Parliament discussion. According to the results of the discussion and after that, we will take our next step, Mr Rajitha said. (Chaturanga Samarawickrama)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Sanath Nishantha released on bail
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 31 May 2018 12:16 pm
Sanath Nishantha released on bail
	
Puttalam District parliamentarian Sanath Nishantha Perera was released with a surety of Rs. one million by Chilaw High Court Judge Sanjeewa Morayas today.
His brother Jagath Samantha Perera was further remanded till June 7.
The siblings were arrested for allegedly assaulting Arachchikattuwa Divisional Secretary when he was inspecting a storage facility in 2007. (Jude Samantha)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Semi-luxury buses to be removed by year-end: NTC
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 31 May 2018 06:11 pm
Semi-luxury buses to be removed by year-end: NTC
	
The National Transport Commission (NTC) said today it decided to remove some 450 semi-luxury buses from service by the end of the year.
NTC Chairman M.A.P. Hemachandra told Daily Mirror this decision was taken following a meeting held in January at the Transport Ministry after a number of passengers expressed concerns over the lack of service equal to the higher bus fares.
The semi-luxury buses now in operation will be given till December 31 to convert them into luxury buses or to offer normal services, he said.
Meanwhile, Acting Transport Minister Ashoka Abeysinghe said they planned to import low-floor buses to upgrade the public transport service.
Ordinary Leyland buses are in operation since the Sri Lanka Transport Board (formerly CTB) was nationalised in 1958. Therefore, the ministry has decided to import new low-floor buses and remove the old ones from the fleet, he said. (Chaturanga Samarawickrama)
 
		
==============================
## Title: SL is becoming an active and important player in Indo-Pacific region - Australian Professor
## Section: Hard talk
## Date: 31 May 2018 12:00 am
SL is becoming an active and important player in Indo-Pacific region - Australian Professor
	
Prof. Rory Medcalf, the Head of the Australian National Universitys National Security College, was in Sri Lanka recently. In an interview with Daily Mirror during his stay, he speaks about Sri Lankas strategic positioning and its importance from the Australian point of view.
The Excerpts:
We really want to deepen the strategic and security relationship between Australia and Sri Lanka
	Sri Lanka is a central point in these sea-lanes. It is a vital place for ships to stop
	Australia like many other countries is concerned about how China will use its power and influence
	It is a region where middle and small powers have to get together a lot more
	We have bigger investment relations with US, Japan and many other countries, than with China

Q How do you view your visit to Sri Lanka
The purpose of this visit is to bring a delegation of Australian analysts  academics, ex-Navy personnel etc. We really want to deepen the strategic and security relationship between Australia and Sri Lanka. This is partly a learning experience. We are here to understand Sri Lankas strategic world view. Sri Lanka is becoming a much more active and important player in the Indo-Pacific region, this maritime super-region to which both our nations belong. So we are here to understand Sri Lanka. Secondly we are very interested in sharing Australian perspectives because we believe there is a lot more Sri Lanka and Australia can be doing together. The trilateral dialogue involving Sri Lanka, India and Australia is a very new and regional dialogue, and we hope to make it useful for our governments.
Q How do you view Sri Lankas strategic location in the Indian Ocean region
I think Sri Lanka is strategically important. This is in part because the major economies that all of us depend on in Asia  China, India, Japan and South Korea in turn rely on the sea-lanes in the Indian Ocean. Sri Lanka is a central point in these sea-lanes. It is a vital place for ships to stop. Sri Lanka also has potentially excellent visibility over what is happening in this region, in terms of maritime traffic. Secondly, Sri Lanka has become terrain for strategic competition as we see the rise of China and the expansion of Chinas interests and its presence into the Indian Ocean. Australia like many other countries is concerned about how China will use its power and influence. Given some nervousness about America under Donald Trump, Australia is becoming much more active in developing relations with middle players, with other countries that are not China or the United States. These include Japan, India, Indonesia and France. The smaller countries like Singapore and Sri Lanka are also significant. So middle powers need to band together and share notes on how to manage this great power competition. Australia and Sri Lanka can help each other in that way.
No country ought to fall in line with any other countrys program for the region: we need arrangements that are fair, inclusive and respectful of sovereignty
Q Sri Lanka has already joined hands with the Belt and Road Initiative. How will this project play out in the Indian Ocean region
I am cautious personally about the Belt and Road project. At one level, it is natural and good that rising powers such as China are investing in the region. The region needs infrastructure. You can see some of the initiatives in this country. But we have to ensure that this does not translate into negative strategic and political influence over nations independence. And there needs to be good standards of governance and protections to avoid debt traps. Economic investment should be judged on sound commercial grounds. Australia is learning to avoid excessive economic dependence in any one power because, in future, it might turn into coercive leverage. 
In Australia, we have very clear guidelines on foreign investments. We have opened partnership with many countries. It is true that our biggest trading partner is China. But, our biggest investment partner is the United States. We have bigger investment relations with the US, Japan and a number of other countries, than with China. Moreover, these days all foreign investments are assessed on national security grounds as well as their economic merits.
Q How does Australia look to relations with China in the future in the context of many countries falling in line with Chinas programme
I see it differently. No country ought to fall in line with any other countrys program for the region: we need arrangements that are fair, inclusive and respectful of sovereignty. Pakistan needs to be wary of its relations with China on that basis. The Indo-Pacific is a big region extending from the United States to the Indian Ocean, with Southeast Asia at the core. By some definitions it even extends up to the coast of Africa. The key point is that this is a region of many powers, too large for any one country to dominate. It is made for multi-polarity and balance  we should embrace that and smaller countries should exploit that opportunity.
Q How do you look at Chinas investment in port development in Sri Lanka
I think it again goes to the question whether China will translate it into strategic influence. If so, it is not in your interest in the long run. This is a multi-polar region. It is too large for one party to dominate. It is a region where middle and small powers have to get together a lot more. I think we all need to be swapping assessments and to think how to manage the great powers such as China. We need to avoid anything that looks like future hegemony. We do not want to see Chinas economic projects somehow transforming into a neo-colonial experience for countries that know too well the damage that colonialism can do.
Q How can Sri Lanka balance out its relations with all these countries
It is a great question. It is an exciting problem for a country. There was a time when Sri Lanka was not getting enough attention or understanding from other parts of the world. Now perhaps you have the opposite problem. You need therefore to develop a clear sense of your national priorities and national values, as a smaller power, as a democracy, as a strategic crossroads. So you must build up your internal capacity and skills. You need active and creative Sri Lankan diplomats: you have some but you need more.You need bigger capacity to deal effectively with all these countries that are courting you. So I recommend that Sri Lanka partners with Australia more closely in training and education in areas like national security and foreign policy  as I would naturally say as the head of a university college! In this regard, Australia can help make Sri Lanka a key diplomatic player, something like a Singapore in the Indian Ocean.
Q How do you view the role of India in ensuring order in the Indian Ocean 
India is an essential power to order in the Indian Ocean. It will understandably remain the resident major power there, but it is also learning how to navigate the challenges and opportunities of engaging with others. Indias best hope of limiting, for example, Chinese power and influence is to be a constructive and a generous partner to the small island-nations, and to build inclusive security partnerships with other stakeholders in the region, including the United States, Japan, France and Australia.
Q Sri Lanka has a difficult task in striking a balance in its relations with the world powers. India is a country with political interests in Sri Lanka. How can Sri Lanka balance out its relations with India in your view
Sri Lanka needs to sustain an independent foreign policy, but that does not simply mean swapping Indian influence for Chinese influence. Sri Lanka would be well advised taking an omni-directional approach that includes engagement with a range of powers, including the United States, Japan and Australia as well as China and India.
We do not want to see Chinas economic projects somehow transforming into a neo-colonial experience for countries that know too well the damage
Q How do you respond to allegations of human rights violations against Australia in the Manus island where illegal immigrants including some Sri Lankans are held
The issue of responding to illegal migration and people smuggling has been very politically sensitive in Australia for many years. The Australian Government some years ago reached a policy focused on deterring people smuggling by making it clear that illegal arrivals by sea would not be settled in Australia. Instead, the focus is on an increase intake of legal migrants, including through UN humanitarian programmes. There were troubling reports about conditions in the Manus Island regional processing centre, which has now been closed. These reports have to be weighed against the terrible situation previously, when many people were losing their lives at sea in attempting to reach Australia illegally.
 
		
==============================
## Title: SLPP Councillors killing: Three arrested
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 31 May 2018 10:54 pm
SLPP Councillors killing: Three arrested
	
Three close associates of Sinhara Amal Silva alias Kudu Anju were arrested by the Police Special Task Force (STF) this evening in connection with the killing of SLPP Dehiwala-Mount Lavinia Municipal Councillor K. Ranjan de Silva, father of cricketer Dhananjaya de Silva.
The three suspects including Kudu Anjus uncle Lama Hewage Nihal Dissanayake (Beba) were taken into custody for aiding and abetting the killing. (Darshana Sanjeewa and Thilanka Kanakarathna)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Sri Lanka Red Cross Society Partners with Mobitel for reliable communication solutions
## Section: Press Releases
## Date: 31 May 2018 12:46 pm
Sri Lanka Red Cross Society Partners with Mobitel for reliable communication solutions
	
(Left to Right) - Sudath Madugalle - Deputy Director General - Sri Lanka Red Cross Society, Jagath Abeysinghe - Honorary President - Sri Lanka Red Cross Society, P. G. Kumarasinghe  Chairman - SLT Mobitel, Nalin Perera  CEO - Mobitel (Pvt) Ltd, Prabhath Gamage - General Manager - Enterprise Business, Mobitel (Pvt) Ltd
The National Mobile Service Provider, Mobitel, exchanged a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the Sri Lanka Red Cross Society (SLRCS) recently at Trace Expert City. As per the terms of the MoU, Mobitel will henceforth be the Communication Partner for the SLRCS. Having the SLRCS sign on for Mobitels communication expertise reflects the perception of reliability of the mobile service provider for critical services that the SLRCS provides to the people of Sri Lanka. In the current climate where flood and landslide warnings are being issued, having a reliable communication partner is crucial for a humanitarian body. This MoU marks yet another accomplishment for Mobitel.
As part of the MoU, Mobitel will provide the SLRCS with a mobile donation platform (subscription based/on demand) and assist SLRCS Disaster Response Teams to better serve disaster-affected areas. It will implement special communication programs and services in SLRCS housing and community building projects and extend latest technology assistance for SLRCS Disaster Management Operation rooms and command centers. SLRCS is engaged in critical functions and Mobitels expertise in latest technology is well positioned to cater to its mission critical requirements. As the National Mobile Service Provider, Mobitels technology provides the ideal bridge for the SLRCS to connect with disaster victims to provide relief and rescue in times of floods.
Commenting on the partnership, Nalin Perera - CEO, Mobitel, said, Mobitel is proud to have been selected by the Sri Lanka Red Cross as their communications solution provider to offer the best in ICT products and services. Mobitels innovative and reliable services are truly enhancing communication, technology, health, and IT literacy opportunities for citizens throughout the nation. The SLRCS has been active in the recent flood disasters in Sri Lanka and is a highly reliable relief agency both locally and globally and it is a privilege for Mobitel to partner with such an organization.
Jagath Abeysinghe  President, SLRCS added, Sri Lanka Red Cross Society provides humanitarian support during times of natural disasters and conflicts, or even community emergencies, providing
critical services to save lives and provide essentials for survival and dignity of people. In our mission, we need a reliable communications partner who can not only provide advanced solutions to streamline our disaster management and community housing projects, but also provide connectivity and enhance our operations. We found these qualities in Mobitel and look forward to enjoying Mobitels communications solutions in enhancing our critical operations. Sri Lanka has suffered a series of natural disasters in recent years during which our services are badly needed by the disaster affected people and we believe Mobitel will provide the necessary support to ensure we function at our optimal best.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Time travel, Culture Gaps and hairdressers
## Section: News Features
## Date: 31 May 2018 12:00 am
Time travel, Culture Gaps and hairdressers
	
This turned out to be one of the zaniest stories ever to come my way. But it wasnt supposed to be my story at all. I was accompanying French photojournalist Kenia Sadoun to Negombo. She was keen on doing a photo feature about Namal Fernando who dives for mussels in the Negombo lagoon.
She is from Lyon, France, has a bachelors degree in visual arts, and she is part of a photographers co-operative with six permanent members. They all work with analog photographic technology, meaning negative film and old film cameras. Kenia Sadoun uses an Olympus OM4 SLR, a camera which began its life in 1983 (the series ended production in 2002). She travels with a backpack and prefers this camera because it feels very lightweight for a SLR of that time.
She uses a Canon point-and-shoot autofocus camera as back up. It was fascinating to see someone so young using this analog technology of a kind that I grew up with long ago. It was like time travel. She says that in France negative film photography is making a comeback, with colour labs now operating in many cities, and more and more young photographers are buying once-discarded film cameras. Kenya Sadoun develops and prints black and white. Several types of film are available; but since film is expensive, she buys cans of b & w Orwo negative film in 100 ft cans, loading them into cassettes in her dark room, though she had loaded her camera with Kodak T-Max 400 b & w film for this assignment.
Her attitude is in stark contrast to the digital madness in Sri Lanka, where there are no more labs processing colour films as far as I know, and the only lab processing and printing black and white in Colombo has ceased that operation
That takes me back to the 1980s when we used to load discarded film cassettes with cans of Orwo 80ASA made in East Germany, imported by Dilfilms. Dilman Jayaratne was the agent for Orwo in Sri Lanka. Orwo became unavailable to us soon after the two Germanies were re-united.
Her attitude is in stark contrast to the digital madness in Sri Lanka, where there are no more labs processing colour films as far as I know, and the only lab processing and printing black and white in Colombo has ceased that operation. People think that analog photography is dead, but happily that is not the case in Europe.
Though she would love to work as a photo editor, competition is fierce and she has not yet found a place. But she has started working now as a professional photographer, determined to make it. She arrived in Sri Lanka a month ago to teach photography as a volunteer in a project in Mahavilachchiya. With that assignment done, she was now in Negombo to get her photo feature done before leaving. After looking at possible story lines, she chose the mussel culture story.
Namal Fernando lives by the lagoon and swears by it. He is a man of many parts  activist, environmentalist, diver and story teller. He is the first to introduce mussel culture in to the Negombo lagoon. He and his son Visal Alex Nimrod dive once or twice a week to collect each weeks harvest. It is hard work, as they spend anything up to one hour collecting them, until the oxygen in their tanks is nearly exhausted.
She takes pictures sparingly, not clicking away like digital photographers do. This is typical of film photographers, unless they work for international agencies where the budget allows any number of film rolls per assignment, or sports photographers equipped with motor driven cameras. 
But the zaniest part happened as we were on our way to the lagoon. Passing Negombo town, I saw the now disused Regal cinema and asked Kenia if she would like to visit it, as she had studied cinema. We walked in to be greeted by two young men -- Kamal the manager, and Kumar, his assistant. 
The Regal, owned by Ceylon Theatres, has been closed for some time. The auditorium still has those familiar wooden chairs with curving backs. We went to the projection room upstairs. Its equipment has been removed and the floor was dusty and filled with bits of old film reels and other debris.
I began talking to Kumar about the history of the Regal, and saw Kenia Sadoun sitting in the one dusty old chair remaining in the room. It was a bit unreal at first, rather like the start of a movie. It took a moment to realise that Kamal was doing something to the photojournalists hair. Suddenly, he called Kumar to hold a strand of her hair and assist him.
She was getting her hair braided, and free of charge, too. It was so zany I began laughing. Sometimes, the best stories simply happen, out of the blue. Inside that abandoned projection room, mostly dark except for a weak electric bulb and daylight coming in through a single window, the sitter, the hairdresser and his assistant looked like a setting for a chiaroscuro painting. Or, more likely, perhaps the zaniest scene to unfold inside that venerable projection room from 1928 to the date this cinema closed. I have heard that culture gaps wider than any ocean can be bridged by language, kindness, romance  and here was proof before my eyes that they can be bridged in a flash by hairdressers, too.
Thats how I stumbled upon one of the craziest stories in my working life. 
 
		
==============================
## Title: Truth and dare of presidents, presidencies and presidential
## Section: Opinion
## Date: 31 May 2018 12:00 am
Truth and dare of presidents, presidencies and presidential
	
If anyone has carefully read the Second Republican Constitution 1978, also known as the JRJ Constitution, he or she would conclude that its all about the Executive Presidency. If powers described in the Constitution is likened to a tree, the Executive Presidency is the root, the trunk, the branches, leaves, flowers, fruit and bark. It was about centralizing power. It was dictatorial or put another way it was a constitution that was made to make dictators. 
Even today, as power vested in offices go, the presidency is where power is resident
	The preponderance of power in that office means the President is directly or indirectly responsible for all wrongdoing
	Welcome to Sri Lanka, land of liberal double-speak, nation of uncivilized charlatans who are loathe to look at the mirror
	At the end of the day, we still have a made-to-make-dictators constitution
So, since 1978 people have ranted and raved about the anti-democratic nature of the JRJ Constitution. Draconian was a frequently used descriptive. The call was for its abolition. The promise of the various Oppositions was abolition. It was a promise that was made and forgotten. 
The 17th Amendment sought to prune presidential powers. The 18th effectively restored those draconian powers. The 19th was tabled by a political coalition, the yahapalanists, that promised to abolish the Executive Presidency; it made some cosmetic changes, nothing more. Even today, as power vested in offices go, the presidency is where power is resident. It is the president, more than anyone else, who can cause the most amount of change with the least amount of effort. 
The preponderance of power in that office means that the President is directly or indirectly responsible for all wrongdoing. This is why J.R. Jayewardene, Ranasinghe Premadasa, Chandrika Kumaratunga and Mahinda Rajapaksa (D.B. Wijetungas tenure was an accident and short) are blamed for all the bad things that happened during their respective presidencies. By the same token, they deserve credit for whatever positives of the relevant periods. 
As such, President Premadasa is applauded for building houses, planting trees and the Janasaviya even as he is blamed for the worst two-year period of terror that Sri Lanka has suffered since Independence, the bheeshanaya of 1988-89. He is blamed even though it was his predecessor who planted its seeds through many undemocratic acts including the scandalous referendum of 1982, the rigging of the 1982 presidential election, attacks on workers and students, abuse of parliamentary majority to pass partisan legislation and so on. 
So, since 1978 people have ranted and raved about the anti-democratic nature of the JRJ Constitution
Kumaratungas reign was marked by nothing-done and marred by the murder of a newspaper editor, shameless election malpractice and intimidation including the stripping of a woman. 
Rajapaksas case is more interesting. He did not have the baggage that Premadasa had to contend with, in no small part because his predecessor did not disguise her absolute antipathy. He started with a clean slate, then. All wrongdoing during his tenure get credited to him and him alone, either on account of indulgence or else complicity or incompetence. 
His detractors called him a hawk. The hawk was accused of purchasing LTTE support to win the election by stopping Tamils in LTTE-controlled areas from voting. The hawk chose to talk with the LTTE. The hawk opted for a military offensive only after the LTTE attempted to assassinate the Army Commander. During the tenure of the hawk what his predecessors promised but could not deliver was achieved. The LTTE was militarily defeated. The war came to an end. 
The hawk was by constitutional edict a dictator and he chose to exercise the dictatorial powers vested in his office, for good and bad. Regardless, the hawk by very dint of constitutional reality, deserves credit for defeating the LTTE. Those who vilify him for his excesses and wrongdoing under his watch, and of course benefit from the wiping out of terrorism, do not dare whisper thank you even if they add but, you also did this that and the other and therefore we think you are a terrible, terrible
person and were a bad President. In Sinhala, we call it kuhakakama, roughly translatable as hypocrisy. 
In other words, you cant confer the karumaya while denying the urumaya. You cant vilify and withhold the praise. Thats hypocritical. Hypocrisy, however, is one of the most prominent features of our political culture, so we need not be surprised or alarmed. Its how things are, simply. 
Now we have Maithripala Sirisena, who regardless of powers vested in his office decided that he would share power with Ranil Wickremesinghe. The one is politically tied, for better or worse, to the other. Crimes of omission and commission are therefore attributable to both; both the karumaya and the urumaya, although one would be strained to find things that could come under the latter. 
All this is history. Now, we are looking to 2020 or 2019 as the case could be. Its the season for vilification. Its hypocrisy season in full bloom. Amusingly, it is those who ardently called for legislation to combat hate speech (a measure that would outlaw more than one book that certain religious communities swear by, by the way) who are indulging in all this. 
Out: innocent until proven guilty. In: vilification. Out: acknowledgment of accomplishment. In: praising non-performers. Out: brand-building of preferred choice (perhaps on account of there being certain things that are not in the realm of the possible). In: inadvertently raising the profile of the feared opponent through vilification, giving the enemy a visibility free of charge. Out: all the ethics associated with 
Yahapalanaya. In: same old, same old. Out: looking for a winnable candidate. In: silly attempts to do away with the office since victory is a hopeless proposition. 
Welcome to Sri Lanka, land of liberal double-speak, nation of uncivilized charlatans who are loathe to look at the mirror. At the end of the day, we still have a made-to-make-dictators constitution. Lets just enjoy the spectacle of pots and kettles trying to convince they are white-as-snow spotless. 
Malinda Seneviratne is a freelance writer. malindasenevi@gmail.com
Twitter: malindasene. Blog:www.malindawords.blogstpo.com.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Unilever and Mindshares Team Unilever Win Top Global Digital Honors
## Section: Press Releases
## Date: 31 May 2018 02:34 pm
Unilever and Mindshares Team Unilever Win Top Global Digital Honors
	
The teams from Unilever Sri Lanka and Mindshares Team Unilever who were part of the Marmite Spoiler-Mite campaign
Unilever Sri Lanka and Mindshares Team Unilever, a unit of GroupM Media Private Limited Sri Lanka, bagged the Gold Award in the Best Use of Digital Media category at the Festival of Media Global Awards held in Rome for the Marmite Spoiler-Mite: The Game of Thrones Spoiler Blocker campaign. The award, Sri Lankas biggest global accolade to date in digital marketing, is a landmark achievement for marketing in the island.
The Festival of Media Global Awards is an established global benchmark for creativity and innovation in media and recognize the creative use of media and effectiveness as well as media owner innovations. Showcasing the very best in media thinking from around the world, it is open to all those involved in brand communications including agencies, media owners, brands, ad tech and communication specialists. A preeminent panel of judges comprising of senior industry leaders judged work by some of the worlds leading brands to pick winners across 26 categories at this years event.
Unilever and Mindshares Team Unilever deployed the ingenious Marmite Spoiler-Mite campaign during the 7th season of the blockbuster TV series, Game of Thrones (GOT), to help fans in Sri Lanka stay away from spoilers that might ruin their GOT experience for them.
The campaign involved a Marmite branded Google Chrome extension that allowed users to block all spoilers when they were online. A pop-up interface appeared every time the extension detected a spoiler, giving users the option to choose whether they wanted to see or block the piece of content. Using Love and Hate buttons inspired by Marmites Love it or Hate It marketing platform to further cement the connection with the brand. Allowing Marmite to be present wherever GOT was being discussed online, the clutter breaking campaign reached more than 2.5 million Sri Lankans with over 400,000 engagements.
At Unilever, we place the consumer at the heart of everything we do, from product development to marketing communications and beyond. In line with this, the Spoiler-Mite campaign leveraged a global media phenomenon to engage consumers in a meaningful manner. It is an honor to see this work being recognized with a Gold at the Festival of Media Global Awards. It wouldnt have been possible without the relentless efforts and commitment of the extended Marmite brand team and our longstanding digital partners, Mindshares Team Unilever. The award also helps showcase Sri Lankas ingenuity and digital prowess to the world, said Sharmila Bandara, Marketing Director  Home Care, Foods & Beverages at Unilever Sri Lanka.
As media platforms get ever more cluttered, it is becoming increasingly difficult for brands to rise above the noise and get their messages across to consumers. Working together with our digital partners, Mindshares Team Unilever, we were able to capitalize on the popularity of Game of Thrones for Marmite through an innovative digital proposition - Spoiler-Mite. We are delighted to see this campaign being recognized at the Festival of Media Global Awards. Bringing glory to the nation, it underscores Sri Lankas position as a strong player in the digital media landscape. We look forward to working on more such path breaking media innovations, said Channa Tennakoon, Head of Media and Activations at Unilever Sri Lanka.
Shalendra Mendis, Head of Digital for Mindshare's Team Unilever said Spoiler-Mite was one of those epiphanic ideas you get in the middle of the night and you instantly know its going to take the marketing world by storm. Spoiler-Mites ingenuity harnessed the power of Game of Thrones and converted it into absolutely clutter breaking, contextually relevant and precisely targeted messaging for Marmite. Mindshare's Team Unilever is the best in the business: Spoiler-Mite and this FOMG Gold just proved that we are truly world class. Delighted with this win which gives us the impetus to keep driving impactful digital innovations.
The Spoiler-Mite campaign has received several other accolades over the past year including winner of the MindShare Global Campaign of the Month in November 2017 as well as emerging as the Runner Up in the Best Adaptive Solution of 2017 category and being shortlisted in the Campaign of the Year 2017 category at The Mindshare Original Thinking Awards.
 
		
==============================
## Title: US says attacks on religious minorities continue in SL
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 31 May 2018 10:23 am
US says attacks on religious minorities continue in SL
	
The US Government said yesterday attacks on religious minorities in Sri Lanka continued unabated from the previous year.
In its International Religious Freedom Report for 2017, the US Bureau of Democracy, Human Rights and Labour said the National Christian Evangelical Alliance of Sri Lanka (NCEASL) documented 97 incidents of attacks on churches, intimidation and violence against pastors and their congregations, and obstruction of worship services.
The Muslim Council of Sri Lanka (MCSL) reported dozens of violent attacks on mosques and Muslim prayer rooms during the year, especially during Ramadan. Buddhist nationalist groups such as the Bodu Bala Sena continued to promote the supremacy of the ethnic Sinhalese Buddhist majority and denigrate religious and ethnic minorities, especially via social media, the report said.
It said the US Ambassador in Sri Lanka repeatedly urged political leaders to defend religious minorities and protect religious freedom for all, emphasizing their importance in the national reconciliation process.
The report further said according to representatives of religious minority communities and non-governmental organisations (NGOs), government officials at the local level engaged in systematic discrimination against religious minorities, especially Muslims and converts to non-denominational Christian groups.
Local government officials and the police reportedly responded minimally or not at all to numerous incidents of religiously motivated violence against Muslim and Christian minorities. There were some reports of government officials being complicit in physical attacks on religious minorities and their places of worship, it said.
It said the then Justice Minister Wijeyadasa Rajapakshe publicly threatened to disbar and jail prominent human rights attorney Lakshan Dias for giving a media interview in which he stated that more than 190 documented attacks on evangelical Christians had occurred under the current government.
Non-denominational Christian churches, often referred to as evangelical or free groups, continued to report physical attacks and harassment by police and local government officials who often sided with the religious majority in a given community. The government continued to enforce the ministerial circular issued by the Ministry of Buddha Sasana and Religious Affairs in 2008, which required registration of and permission for construction of new places of worship, the report said.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Water supply to Kelaniya, Wattala to be interrupted tomorrow
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 31 May 2018 08:35 pm
Water supply to Kelaniya, Wattala to be interrupted tomorrow
	
The water supply in Kelaniya, Peliyagoda and Wattala areas would be interrupted for 12 hours from Friday 7 p.m, the National Water Supply and Drainage Board (NWSDB) announced today.
It said the water supply would be interrupted due to an essential maintenance work of the southern bank of the Kelani River.
Accordingly, water supply in Kelaniya Pradeshiya Sabha, Peliyagoda Urban Council, Wattala Urban Council, Wattala Pradeshiya Sabha, Biyagama Pradeshiya Sabha, Mahara Pradeshiya Sabha, Dompe Pradeshiya Sabha, Ja-Ela Pradeshiya Sabha, Ja-Ela Urban Council, Katunayeke / Seeduwa Urban Council and some areas in Gampaha Pradeshiya Sabhs would be interrupted. (TK)
 
		
==============================
## Title: What are the top property hot-spots around Colombo
## Section: Press Releases
## Date: 31 May 2018 12:23 pm
What are the top property hot-spots around Colombo
	
A recent study done by LankaPropertyWeb.com reveals the average residential land prices around Colombo and which areas the prices have gone up. In one of the most comprehensive studies done on land for sale asking prices (for-sale prices) around Colombo listed on their website, the suburbs of Nawala, Dehiwala and Rajagiriya have topped the list for the highest per perch average price. The cheapest areas for land within proximity to Colombo is Ingiriya, Padukka & Kosgama.
While the above figures provide some interesting facts, it wont surprise many as the prices tend to obey the proximity rule  where prices closest to the main city are the most expensive and as you go further away the prices decrease. The Heat Map below illustrates the average land prices in each area.
Price trends
However, interestingly, even though the land prices in the country has been increasing, the rate of year-on-year increase has slowed down in the last 3 quarters, with the last quarter recording a 9.26% increase, according to the House Price Index.
Colombo city has also shown similar characteristics to the national land prices, with Y-O-Y price rises slowing down to 8.5% in the last quarter, and rest of the Western Province saw average land prices rise by 13.5%. While land prices will continue to rise overall, and remains as a top investment, it needs to be seen if the slowdown in the price increase is temporary or will become the future trend.
In terms of price increases, areas further away from Colombo have shown significant increases with Veyangoda, Mirigama and Hanwella showing above 50% year-on-year increases. Closer to Colombo, Thalawatugoda and Thalahena have shown the best increases with increases between 40-50%.
Its worth noting that these values represent statistical average prices for that whole area and prices within the area will have its own variances, such as land close to main roads or junctions being expensive and above average. If you wish to obtain more accurate prices for your land or neighbourhood prices, then you should view land for sale listings for that area, check with an estate agent or valuer in your area.
Property transaction trends in Western Province
The number of Deeds registered in a given region would be a good indicator of the number of property transitions in that region and how buoyant the market in that area is. Recent Deed registration statistics released by the Registrar Generals Department (for 2012-2016 period), shows that the number of deeds registered in Western Province and each of its districts has grown year on year, however the growth has started to slow down.
2016 has seen 472,316 property transactions / Deed registrations in Western province, with bulk of it coming from Colombo & Gampaha Districts. There was a 6% increase in registrations in 2016, compared to 11% in 2015.
The below graph shows annual growth of the registrations for each of the districts in Colombo
All graphs show a decline in 2012/13 period. While there could have been many factors for this, one factor could have been the high interest rates during that period. The below chart illustrates the interest rates during the 2012-2016 period.

This would have discouraged the real estate buyers to delay their investment. Once the interest rates declined to its lowest levels, it can be observed that the activity increased in 2014 & 2015. Once again, the actives were contracted in 2016 with the increase of interest rates.
Islandwide, Mullativu has shown the highest increase in Deed registrations for the 2012-2016 period, while Polonnaruwa, Vavuniya and Mullativu has the highest growth in 2016. Full charts and further details about this can be found on the LankaPropertyWeb.com website.
 
		
==============================
## Title: World No Tobacco Day is today Trapped in a defenceless smoking culture
## Section: News Features
## Date: 31 May 2018 12:00 am
World No Tobacco Day is today Trapped in a defenceless smoking culture
	
Tobacco is a deadly product that kills more than 7 million people annually. According to the World Health Organization (WHO), more than 6 million of these deaths are the result of direct tobacco use while around 890 000 are the result of non-smokers being exposed to second-hand smoke. 
Around 80% of the 1.1 billion smokers worldwide live in low- and middle-income countries, where the burden of tobacco-related illness and death is the heaviest. 
Today, the world celebrates World No Tobacco Day. The World Health Organization has declared May 31 as the World No Tobacco Day to focus attention on tobacco products. The theme for the World No Tobacco Day this yearis Tobacco and Heart Disease. 
Around80% of the1.1 billionsmokersworldwide live in low- and middle-income countries
There are two types of uses associated with tobacco: Smoked Tobacco and Smokeless Tobacco. Cigarettes come under the category of Smoked Tobacco and betel quid comes under Smokeless Tobacco. 
One cant understate the devastating impact of tobacco in terms of its negative impact on health and other sectors like economy, education and environment. 
Diseases and complications caused by smoking
Smoking causes stroke and coronary heart disease 
	Cardiovascular disease 
	Lung Cancer 
	Heart Disease 
	Reproductive effects in women 
	Premature, low birth-weight babies 
	Smoking damages blood vessels and can make them thicken and grow narrower. 
	Blockages caused by smoking can also reduce blood flow to your legs and skin.
Speaking to the Daily Mirror National Authority on Tobacco and Alcohol (NATA) Chairman Dr. Palitha Abeykoon said that this year the Ministry of Health and the National Authority on Tobacco and Alcohol requests all tobacco users in Sri Lanka not to use tobacco products today (31) and tobacco retailers not to sell tobacco products (today) to protect their customers. 
This initiative will be supported by Presidential Task Force on Drug Prevention, Sri Lanka Medical Association, Sri Lanka Heart Association and Alcohol and Drug information Centre. Expectations are high that the whole country will support this initiative which would further strengthen the march towards a tobacco-free Sri Lanka, said Abeykoon.
Gravity of smoking
The tobacco epidemic is one of the biggest public health threats the world has ever faced. It causes diseases in almost all organs of the human body. 
In addition to its health adversaries, tobacco use is also a threat to the development in every country. This threat is carried to every level and across many sectors like the economy, health, education, environment and aids poverty. 
Smoking in Sri Lanka
Around one fourth of the adults (25.8%) are current users of any form of tobacco (smoked or smokeless tobacco). Tobacco use is higher among men (45.7%) when compared to women (5.3%). Its notable that around 20,000 Sri Lankans die annually from tobacco use. 
Dr. Abeykoon said that 15% of the total population comprises smokers out of whom 10.2% are daily smokers and 4.8% are those who dont smoke daily. It is also estimated that 76.5% of the population has never smoked and 8.5% were former smokers. 
We are happy to note that there is a considerable decline in the use of cigarettes during the past 10 years. At the same time, we expect that it would reduce by 10% during the next five years. Its absolutely difficult to reduce it by 10% but we plan to take some effective steps to discourage smoking and educate smokers on the adverse conditions of smoking, Abeykoon said. 
1.5 million people are using cigarettes in Sri Lanka. Most of them are addicted smokers. Its estimated that 0.1% of women are also consuming cigarettes. Out of the total smokers 19.9% smoke daily, Abeykoon added. 
There are different types of fags being used in Sri Lanka such as manufactured cigarettes, hand-rolled cigarettes, pipe tobacco, cigars, cheerots, ciagrillos and shisha. 
Smoking causes more deaths each year than the following causes combined:
Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) 
	Alcohol use 
	Motor vehicle injuries 
	Firearm-related incidents 
	Illegal drug use
Although the majority (85.2%) of the current male smokers are using manufactured cigarettes, more than one fourth (28%) uses Shisha.
The use of Shisha is more in age group between 45-59 and 60-69 years. Besides, 6.9% was using the hand-rolled cigarettes and 2% was still using pipe tobacco. 
Nearly two thirds of the male daily smokers (62.3%) are smoking less than 5 manufactured or hand rolled cigarettes per day.
However, nearly 13.5% are smoking more than 10 manufactured or hand rolled cigarettes a day. 
Smokeless tobacco- More than one fourth of the males (26.0%) and nearly 5% of females are currently using smokeless tobacco. This is more prevalent among the older age groups. Nearly 12% of the current users of smokeless tobacco weredaily users. 
Steps taken in Sri Lanka to discourage smoking
1. Banning advertising related to tobacco 
2. Imposing on use of pictorial warnings 
3. No sales to minors (age below 18) 
4. No promotions allowed 
5. Banning smokeless tobacco 
6. Taxation (Ongoing) 
7. Quitline 
8. No sale of fags within 100m of schools (Approved by Cabinet) 
9. Plain packaging (Approved by Cabinet) 
10. Sale of single sticks banned (Awaiting Cabinet approval) 
Intensify awareness programmes (esp among school children) 
	Strengthen tobacco cessation programmes 
	Accelerate tobacco crop substitution 
	Enforce smokeless tobacco legislation 
	Adopt a taxation formula 
Voice of some smokers
A daily smoker from Waligampitiya, who wished to remain anonymous, told Daily Mirror that he was influenced to use cigarettes by looking at his father who was a heavy smoker. 
 I hated cigarettes. I have seen cigarettes being kept in many places at our home. One day, at the age of 17, I thought of using one just to test what happens after smoking. On that day I felt nothing. However, I again tried it. Now I am addicted to cigarettes. I dont blame my father because I shouldnt have used it at the first instance, he said. 
Prevention policies
Protect people from exposure to tobacco smoke by creating completely smoke-free indoor public places, workplaces and public transport. 
	Offer help to quit tobacco (cost-covered, population-wide support, including brief advice by health care providers and national toll-free quit lines). 
	Warn about the dangers of tobacco by implementing plain/standardized packaging, and/or large graphic health warnings on all tobacco packages, and implementing effective anti-tobacco mass media campaigns that inform the public about the harms tobacco use and second-hand smoke exposure. 
	Enforce comprehensive bans on tobacco advertising, promotion and sponsorship. 
	Raise taxes on tobacco products and make them less affordable. 



 
		
==============================