## Title: Adverse weather: Govt should immediately provide relief to those affected-Wimal
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 2 December 2017 10:30 am
Adverse weather: Govt should immediately provide relief to those affected-Wimal
	
With most of the country still reeling from the effects of the inclement weather condition, it is the responsibility of the government to look into the needs of those who were affected and provide them relief without delay, National Freedom Front (NFF) Leader MP Wimal Weerawansa said.
In a media release put out by the party, MP Weerawansa said more than 20,000 people from 11 districts had been affected by the adverse weather while 7 deaths had also been reported while 23 persons reported missing.
It seems that the government is just going through the motions when it comes to managing the relief operations and is more interested in showing off to the media whereas what they should be doing is being proactive and make sure relief operations take place in an effective manner, Weerawansa stressed.
He charged that the civic minded people of this country were assisting those affected by this calamity more than the government was which was a shame. (Sheain Fernandopulle)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Another tusker shot dead at Karuwalagaswewa
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 2 December 2017 08:20 am
Another tusker shot dead at Karuwalagaswewa
	
Not many days after the killing of the well-known tusker, the Dala Poottuwa and the arrest of five suspects in this connection; five more suspects were arrested on charges of having shot dead another tusker in Karuwalagaswewa.
Its body was found near the Thabbowa reservoir in Karuwalagaswewa on Wednesday morning.
The Puttalam Wildlife Conservation Department Assistant Director W.M.K.S. Chandraratne said Veterinary Surgeon Chandana Jayasinghe who carried out the postmortem examination had in his report identified the elephant's death was caused by gunshot injuries to its liver and the resultant internal bleeding.
Villagers said the 18-year-old elephant with with its four-foot pair of tusks was not often seen outside the jungle area it inhabited.
The tusks were taken into custody by the wildlife department. (Jayaratne Wickremarachchi)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Argentina formally ends search for sub survivors: Navy
## Section: International
## Date: 2 December 2017 12:00 am
Argentina formally ends search for sub survivors: Navy
	

BUENOS AIRES AFP Dec1, 2017- Argentinas navy on Thursday formally ended its search for survivors from the San Juan submarine, two weeks after the vessel went missing in the South Atlantic with 44 crew aboard. 
Among the ARA San Juans crew was Argentinas first female navy submariner: Eliana Krawczyk, 35. 
The navy has shifted its mission from rescue to recovery, spokesman Enrique Balbi told reporters. 
In its final communication, the submarine reported it had overcome a mechanical breakdown that resulted from a short circuit due to the entry of water via the vessels snorkel. 
Three hours later, a noise similar to an explosion was recorded 48 kilometres from where the crew had given its last report. 
The position was in line with the path the submarine would have taken to reach its base in Mar del Plata as planned, the navy has said. 
The navys final contact with the ARA San Juan, came on November 15, when it was sailing in the South Atlantic 450 kilometres (280 miles) from the coast.
 
		
==============================
## Title: CH & FC Vs Police Sports Club
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 2 December 2017 10:05 am
CH & FC Vs Police Sports Club
	
CH flanker Yoshitha Rajapaksa offloads the ball as his brother Rohitha Rajapaksa looks on at the CH & FC in a rain-hit rugby encounter with Police Sports Club in their Dialog Rugby League match held earlier yesterday. Pix by Pradeep Dilrukshana

 
		
==============================
## Title: Explosion at Japan chemical factory kills one, hurts 11
## Section: International
## Date: 2 December 2017 12:00 am
Explosion at Japan chemical factory kills one, hurts 11
	

TOKYO AFP Dec1, 2017- injured in an explosion and fire that broke out Friday at a chemical factory just a few kilometres from Mount Fuji in central Japan.

Residents living within 100 metres (330 feet) of the factory were ordered to evacuate as 17 fire engines and nearly 60 firefighters battled the blaze. 
Plumes of thick black smoke billowed into the sky from the factory belonging to Arakawa Chemical Industries, which manufactures chemicals for the paper industry. 
A 64-year-old worker, who had earlier been missing, was found dead, Takahiro Suzuki, a fire service official from Fuji City, told AFP. 
Eleven other workers were hurt, three seriously, he said, updating an earlier announcement that 14 people had been injured. 
The casualties were all male and aged in their 20s to 60s. Fuji city is located in the foothills of the world-famous Mount Fuji, around 100 kilometres west of the capital Tokyo. 
Officials said it was not immediately clear exactly what was burning but the factory operator denied risks of potential contamination or pollution. 
There is no concern that chemicals in the plant could pollute the environment in the neighbourhood, said a company official who declined to give his name.
 
		
==============================
## Title: GREAT PERSONALITY AND AN EXCEPTIONAL CHARACTER
## Section: News Features
## Date: 2 December 2017 12:00 am
GREAT PERSONALITY AND AN EXCEPTIONAL CHARACTER
	
Bhikkhus, when virtuous renunciant dwell in dependence on a village or a town, there people generate much merit in three ways.
What are the three By body, speech and mind.
When virtuous renunciant dwell in dependence on a village or a town, there people generate much merit in these three ways.
(Anguttara Nikaya)
This is the impeccable statement made by the great Master, the Gauthama Buddha about his true disciples 26 centuries ago. The pearl of Indian Ocean and the beautiful island Sri Lanka was very fortunate to inherit a worthy personage at the dawn of the 20th century.
The Rajapaksha family was highly regarded, wealthy and respected Buddhists in Ampitiya, Kandy which is profoundly gifted with the blessings of the sacred tooth relic. They were very well educated and equipped with vast amount knowledge in English language. That capacity and competency led them to be in reputable positions in numerous places in the government.
Very fortunate and a blessed child was born to Rajapaksha family at 10 pm on December 24, 1914. Simon and Karuna Rajapaksha were so delighted. As a tradition and customary, according to the time of the birth he was given a Buddhist name as Dharmadasa Rajapaksha unlike other brothers, such as Henry, Elias, John, Peter, Richard, Kenny and Francis.

Under the guidance of Ven. Pelene Mahanayaka Thera, the young Dharmadasa excelled the needful knowledge of Dhamma and discipline and then he was ordained on May 6, 1936 under the name Ven. Ampitiye Rahula

After, the completion of his secondary education with an extensive knowledge of English young Dharmadasa joined the government service as a clerk at the Nawalapitiya Municipal Council.
Since Dharmadasa was against issuing licences for slaughter houses by the Municipal Council he was reluctant to continue his contribution. He was a very compassionate person and would never encourage anyone to hurt or harm any living being. This cruel act of the Municipal Council led him to resign from that service. Then he was offered a teaching job at the school where his elder brother was the principal. He was delighted to share his knowledge with young students and worked as an English teacher.
However at that time, the idea of becoming a Buddhist monk was firmly crystallized and gradually solidified in his mind. This profound conclusion led him to resign from his teaching career and with the help of his elder brother he won the hearts of all the other members of the Rajapaksha family to become a monk.
Even though his family members wanted him to be ordained in a prestigious and affluent monastery where he could have easily become a superior and a mighty, specially because of his English education, young Dharmadasa was reluctant to do so.
By the time he was so ardent to become a monk and was looking for a suitable teacher, the incumbent of Vajiraramaya in Bambalapitiya, Ven. Pelene Siri Vajiragnana Maha Nayaka Thera was a leading and outstanding character in the country. He had a widespread reputation as a scholar and as a well versed personality. Young Dharmadasa had listened to his sermons on radio and had read his newspaper articles and that paramount impression guided him to meet this eminent character and decided to take ordination under him.
Under the guidance of Ven. Pelene Mahanayaka Thera young Dharmadasa excelled the needful knowledge of Dhamma and discipline and then he was ordained on May 6, 1936 under the name Ven. Ampitiye Rahula. After the completion of compulsory eligibilities, his higher ordination took place on July 30, 1936 in Kelaniya with five other Chinese novices.
Ven. Ampitiye Maha Thera was a very loyal and an obedient disciple of his compassionate teacher. When his teacher Most Ven. Pelene Mahanayaka Thera became unwell and physically weak Ven. Ampitiye Maha Thera wholeheartedly devoted himself towards fulfilling all the requirements of his venerable teacher and as an immediate result of the wholesome kamma accumulated by Ven. Ampitiye Maha Thera is now being very well looked after by his own pupil Ven. Deepaloka Thera with great respect.
As a mark of gratitude towards his teacher he established the Bhikkhu Training Centre at Maharagama in 1958 with the guidance of late Most Ven. Madihe Maha Nayaka Thera. It was named as Siri Vajiragnana Dharmayathanaya by dedicating it to his most respectable teacher. He has also ordained hundreds of youth to become highly educated and well trained monks who are now serving the humanity by spreading the teachings of the Buddha all over the world.
We are extremely proud of our precious teacher and delighted to pronounce that our compassionate teacher Ven. Ampitiye Maha Thera is one of the uppermost personalities in the community of Maha Sangha that embodied his eminent character as a well-disciplined and well-mannered personality who respects and lives up the Doctrine and Discipline (Dhamma and Vinaya).
When I was studying under the guidance of Maha Thera, I remember how he used to advise me. In numerous times he compassionately pointed out my mistakes and minor lapses and has always kindly encouraged me to correct and rectify them by quoting Buddhas words such as
One who associate with inferior person declines
One who associate with an equal does not decline
Attending on a superior person one develops quickly
Therefore you should follow one superior to yourself.
Not only he advised us but also he was an extraordinary exemplary person. He himself was abiding by all the rules and encouraged us to do the same. He was a unique living example to all his students. He is the embodiment of purity and virtue. Not only in words and instructions but also in deeds, his well-organized life is unimpeachable. The places and surroundings where he lived were spotless, well arranged and tidy. I am yet to see such highly organized character and surroundings anywhere else.
The purpose of monkhood is giving up; not accumulating any material possession
This is also another frequently used phrase of my teacher. Not only in Pali language but also in English he beautifully implanted numerous worthy factors in our hearts for the benefit of our lives. He also has established many monasteries and meditation centres, for the benefit of many.
In 1984, Prof. R.G. Panabokke and his University associates invited my teacher to reside for rainy retreat at one of the university premises in Peradeniya. While he was residing there he delivered numerous Dhamma talks and conducted meditation sessions especially for foreign students in English. Most fascinating and impressive incident was the daily routine of alms around of my teacher, Ven. Ampitiye Maha Thera. Many scholars and students were highly impressed to see that rare incident in the vicinity of such a prestigious academic environment.
Plain living and high thinking is another familiar expression of his daily advises. Simplicity, clarity, purity and morality are the paramount qualities that our teacher always encouraged us to cultivate and develop within us.
He was never desirous to have titles, designations, appellations or any other epithet. He is a very simple and extremely humble teacher. He has always stated that these titles are impediments and hindrances for the path of purification. This is also one of the classic examples of my great teacher Ven. Ampitiye Maha Thera.
In this era in which the respect and unity are drastically eroding and gradually disappearing from our Sangha Community Ven. Ampitiye Rahula Maha Thera and late Ven. Madihe Maha Nayaka Thera maintained an amicable relationship with each other with great respect and without any single disagreement. This is the utmost rare and unprecedented cooperation and association I have seen in my whole life up to this day. Each and every single occasion when Ven. Ampitiye Maha Thera paid his respect to Ven. Madihe Nayaka Thera he never turned his back towards the elder but moved backwards with joint palms on his forehead. Very rare and treasured incidence like this has brought tears to our eyes many a times in the past. 
Ven. Ampitiye Sri Rahula Maha Thera is full of great innermost qualities and profound virtues which can be written to fill many volumes of books. For me it is a difficult task to vividly explicate in words since my vocabulary is very limited.
My humble effort was to write about the greatness of Ven. Ampitiye Rahula Thera at least in few words to pay my wholehearted respects to my teacher who compassionately ordained me and trained me well as a bhikkhu in this dispensation of the Gautama Buddha.
His 104th birthday is on December 24, 2017.
May Ven. Ampitiye Sri Rahula Maha Thera be well and happy and may he accomplish all his aspirations with ease and comfort.
 
		
==============================
## Title: H'tota Port, Mattala Airport -- Chinese, Indian funds will boost foreign reserves: PM
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 2 December 2017 06:15 am
H'tota Port, Mattala Airport -- Chinese, Indian funds will boost foreign reserves: PM
	
The funds received from China Merchant Company in connection with the Hambantota Port Project and those received from the Indian company in connection with the Mattala Airport will be credited to a special account thus boosting the country's foreign reserves, Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe said yesterday.
He said this at the opening of the new bus stand and economic centre in Ampara yesterday.
"Sri Lanka will receive US$1.1 billion from the China Merchant Co., Ltd under the debt swapping programme while US$300 million will be invested by the Indian company to manage the Mattala international airport on the basis of a joint venture with the Civil Aviation Authority. It will also be possible to earn more by selling some of the half-built hotels. We are hoping to stabilise our foreign reserves in ten years time," the Prime Minister said. "Some are asking us as to what we have been doing during the past two years. The people remember that we inherited a country laden with debt. I told Parliament on Thursday how bonds have been issued without informing the monetary board. However we have managed to stabilize the economy. We have managed to stabilize the economy amid other challenges such as natural disasters."
The Prime Minister also underscored the fact that Sri Lanka the cost of living had risen because of the natural disasters that devastated the country recently and said the government would go ahead with its plans to develop Colombo, Hambantota, Kandy and the Hingurakgoda Airport mainly to boost tourism.
He said he would visit Bingiriya on Sunday to look for suitable lands to set up industrial zones there and recalled that Ampara was developed with the setting up of the Galoya Development Project and later with the Mahaweli project. (Yohan Perera and Wasantha Chandra Pala in Ampara)
 
		
==============================
## Title: 20 Indian fishermen arrested for poaching in SL waters
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 2 December 2017 05:12 pm
20 Indian fishermen arrested for poaching in SL waters
	
Twenty Indian fishermen were arrested by the Sri Lanka Navy along with two fishing trawlers for poaching in the Sri Lankan territorial waters in the seas off Kovilan Point and Point Pedro.
The Navy said fast attack craft attached to the Northern Naval Command, on routine patrol had arrested fishermen.
One of the seized trawlers was brought to the naval base SLNS Elara in Kareinagar while the other trawler and fishermen were retained at SLNS Uttara in Kankesanthurai.
The apprehended fishermen were subsequently handed over to the Jaffna fisheries officials for onward legal action.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Mexican migrant in murder case seized on by Trump acquitted
## Section: International
## Date: 2 December 2017 12:00 am
Mexican migrant in murder case seized on by Trump acquitted
	

SAN FRANCISCO AFP Dec1, 2017- An undocumented Mexican immigrant was acquitted Thursday of murdering a woman in California -- a dramatic conclusion to a polarizing case that President Donald Trump frequently used on the campaign trail to make the case against illegal immigration. 
Jose Ines Garcia Zarate -- who had been deported five times from US soil -- was charged with fatally shooting Kathryn Steinle, 32, in July 2015 in San Francisco. 
His attorneys argued that the gun went off by accident. 
After several days of deliberations, jurors only found him guilty of felony possession of a weapon. 
Trump was quick to denounce the verdict, and immigration authorities said they would work to see Garcia deported. 
During the heated 2016 race for the White House, Trump regularly used the case to justify his proposed construction of a massive wall on the border with Mexico.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Shallow 6.0 quake strikes eastern Iran
## Section: International
## Date: 2 December 2017 12:00 am
Shallow 6.0 quake strikes eastern Iran
	

TEHRAN AFP Dec1, 2017- Three earthquakes hit eastern Iran in quick succession early Friday, the first a fairly strong magnitude 6.0 tremor that struck at a shallow depth close to the populous city of Kerman, the US Geological Survey said. 
It was followed by two less powerful 5.0 and 5.1 aftershocks in the same area, the survey said. 
For the moment, no deaths have been reported but there has been destruction in several villages, Hossein-Ali Mehrabizadeh, an official with the crisis unit in Kerman, told state television. Residents of the city came out into the street as the quake struck, and motorists were seen rushing to stock up on petrol, according to local media. The latest tremors come just over two weeks after a 7.3 quake killed more than 500 people in western Kermanshah province, close to the border with neighbouring Iraq. 
Iran sits on top of where two major tectonic plates meet and sees frequent seismic activity. 
 
		
==============================
## Title: Tamil secessionism and the  Dravida State demand in India
## Section: DBS Jeyaraj Column
## Date: 2 December 2017 12:02 am
Tamil secessionism and the  Dravida State demand in India
	
Although secessionism flourished at one time in Indias southern State of Tamil Nadu - formerly known as Madras - it was confined within limits of democratic dissent and never transformed into a bitter armed struggle as it did in Sri Lanka.
The Brahmin monopoly on the Sanskrit language used for Hindu worship enhanced their position further.
The numerically tiny Brahmins (around 4%) were entrenched as a privileged minority in the Madras presidency.
They dominated most government jobs, professions and teaching

By D.B.S. Jeyaraj

Tamil secessionism in the island of Sri Lanka came to an effective end in May 2009, when the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE) Organization was militarily defeated by the Armed forces of the Government of Sri Lanka.
Interestingly enough our big neighbour India, which has a Tamil speaking population of over 60 million people too faced a Tamil separatist challenge several decades ago. Although secessionism flourished at one time in Indias southern State of Tamil Nadu - formerly known as Madras - it was confined within limits of democratic dissent and never transformed into a bitter armed struggle as it did in Sri Lanka.
Besides, there was an element of ambiguity, about it as Tamil separatism was articulated more in the form of a separate State demand for the Dravidian people of India as opposed to a separate State for the Tamil people of India.

Annadurai (L) and Evera Periyar (R)

Also, the caste factor played an important role in separatist tendencies taking root among the Tamils of India. However, the rise and fall of Tamil secessionism in India provide an illuminating example of how a secessionist steam locomotive could run out of steam or be made to run out of steam through an acceptable course of democratic politics instead of resorting to brutal armed repression.
The years immediately before and after Independence from the British saw a Tamil separatist movement emerging in India too. Indian Tamil secessionism did not reach the levels to which its counterpart in Sri Lanka did. Unlike in Sri Lanka, Tamil separatism in India did not result in organized armed violence against the state. It was basically non-violent and was confined within the parameters of democratic dissent.
The Indian central and state government writ ran at all times in all parts of lands inhabited by Tamils. Also unlike in Sri Lanka, very little force and repression were used in India to suppress Tamil secessionism. More importantly, the roots of Tamil secessionism in India and Sri Lanka were different.
In India, the seeds of separatism were sown within the caste structure, when majority caste groups feeling hemmed in by a minority at the apex of caste hierarchy sought to empower themselves.

In India, the seeds of separatism were sown within the caste structure, when majority caste groups feeling hemmed in by a minority at the apex of caste hierarchy sought to empower themselves.


In Sri Lanka, separatism grew gradually as a minority ethnic group found itself being restricted in many spheres and perceived itself to be oppressed by a numerically larger ethnic majority.
Arguably both modern India and Ceylon/Sri Lanka are colonial constructs. It was the British who unified their territorial conquests into a cohesive unit for administrative convenience. But the British also fostered divisions within their conquered subjects to facilitate governance.
Interestingly this unification and division paved the way for both greater and lesser identities. While an all-embracing Indian nationalism and identity began evolving a number of sub-nationalisms and multiple-identities also began flourishing. India itself was an idea albeit a superior one but there were other competing ideas. Thus there emerged in South India the concept of an alternative, Dravidian identity.
Periyar (L) and Rajaji

Anti -Brahmin Movement
A short re-run of history is essential to understand this development. This is of crucial importance as there can be no proper understanding of Tamil secessionism in India without analysing its genesis.
The roots of Tamil Nadu secessionism lie in the vibrant anti-Brahmin movement of the 20th century. This, in turn, led to the rise of a Dravidian ideology leading to a demand for a Dravidian state.
Thereafter it metamorphosed into a demand for a separate Tamil State. It is necessary therefore to focus on events leading to direct Tamil secessionism.
In ancient times the Tamil country in India was ruled by the three great Chera, Chola and Pandya dynasties and to some extent the Pallava dynasty. There were also periodic conquests by the Hoysala, Rashtrakooda and Chalukya kings. Tiny principalities and vassal states under the suzerainty of powerful rulers also existed.
When European countries like Britain, France, Portugal, Holland and Denmark began setting foot in South India, the older Tamil dynasties were no more. Three other powers namely the Mughals, Mahrattas and Vijayanagara Nayakkars had made their mark and as a result, there was a proliferation of feudal rulers. South India was under a mixed bag of rulers reigning over both big as well as small States.
They ranged from powerful kings like the Nizam of Hyderabad to the insignificant Rajah of Pudukkottai. The British assiduously practised their divide and rule approach to acquiring most South Indian territory through conquest, commerce and compromise.
To this day many people of North India refer to South Indians as Madrasi or from Madras. This reference was not due to the city of Madras (Now Chennai) but originated as a result of what was once the province of Madras encompassing the greater part of South India.
The Madras province of British India known officially as the Presidency of Fort St. George (in Madras city) included in its heyday much of South India. The present-day Tamil Nadu State, the Malabar region of the Kerala State, the coastal Andhra and Rayalaseema regions of the Andhra Pradesh State, the Tulu Nadu region and Bellary districts of the Karnataka State, the Brahmapur and Ganjam Districts of the Orissa State and the Lakshadweep Islands comprised the Madras presidency of British times.
Speakers of Tamil were the single-largest linguistic group in the Madras province. Telugu speakers were a close second. Together Tamils and Telugus formed 78 % of what was then the Madras presidency.
Malayalee, Kannada, Tulu, Urdu and Oriya speakers comprised the rest.
With English being the official language linguistic tensions were virtually absent. The great divide was in terms of caste.

Varnashrama Dharma
The Brahmin caste was upper-most due to cultural, social, economic and religious factors. The Hindu religions Varnashrama dharma caste concept afforded a privileged position to Brahmins.
The Brahmin monopoly on the Sanskrit language used for Hindu worship enhanced their position further. Under the British, they learnt English and were miles ahead of other castes in English literacy. With a penchant for learning, the Brahmins took to education under the British in a big way. Brahmins began filling up official positions and teaching jobs under British rule.
They took to the law, medicine and accounts. Brahmins also served the feudal rulers well and obtained grants of lands to administer. There was also Brahminic control of assets bestowed to temples.
Thus the numerically tiny Brahmins (around 4%) were entrenched as a privileged minority in the Madras presidency. They dominated most government jobs, professions and teaching, owned lands and estates and managed properties of temples. They also had much influence over media and the arts. For instance, an official survey undertaken in 1912 showed that Brahmins formed 3.2% of the male population in the then Madras presidency. Non - Brahmin Hindus were 85.6% of the population.
But the Brahmins held a disproportionate number of higher posts in Govt. service available to Indians. Of Deputy -Collectors 77 were Brahmins and 30 non -Brahmins. 15 sub-judges were Brahmins but only 3 were non-Brahmins. District Chiefs or Munsifs saw 93 being Brahmins and 25 being non -Brahmins.
While the oppressed castes at the bottom rungs of Hindu society continued to languish the other castes regarded as forward also began climbing the socio-economic mobility ladder in south India under the British.
These included the Tamil speaking Vellalas and Mudaliyars, Chetties, Nadars, the Malayalee speaking Nairs/Nayars, Nambiyars, Pillais and Krupps, Kannada speaking Lingayats and Vokkaligas, Telugu speaking Reddys and Khammas.

The Congress party was leading the struggle for Independence from the British. Many of the Congress leaders were educated Brahmins. The Justice Party, on the other hand, did not want independence from the British until social justice prevailed.

In a bid to counter Brahmin domination the upper crust leaders of these castes began grouping together. Since these groups came from different ethnicities a non-linguistic identity was sought. Their resentment of Brahmin domination and common interest brought about an over-arching non-Brahmin group identity. A non-Brahmin or anti-Brahmin consciousness evolved. This was transformed into a Dravidian consciousness and articulated as such.
Dravidian was fundamentally a linguistic term revived by the Western scholar Robert Caldwell. The term Dravida itself was derived from Sanskrit. A Sanskrit scholar Kumarila had used the term Dravidabhasa (Dravidian languages) in 8th century AD to denote the Tamil and Telugu languages. The term Dravida was used in Sanskrit literature to describe the lands south of the Vindyas (South India) and inhabitants. Caldwells revival of the term was in reference to the principal languages of South India-Tamil, Telugu, Malayalam, Kannada and Tulu.
They were considered as springing from a common origin and as forming a distinct family of tongues.

Dravidian Association
This term was most suitable for the emerging non Brahmin, South Indian elite to identify themselves. A movement for social reform was formed as Madras Dravidian Association (Different to the present Dravidian Association/Dravida Kazhagham) in 1912.
This opened the floodgates. Several Dravidian associations followed in its wake illustrating the yearning and despair among non-Brahmin communities for progress and emancipation. The growing Dravidian consciousness saw some respected Non-Brahmins form an association called South Indian Peoples Association as an advocacy group. This, in turn, formed a political party called South Indian Liberal Federation.

But the Brahmins held a disproportionate number of higher posts in Govt. service available to Indians. Of Deputy -Collectors 77 were Brahmins and 30 non -Brahmins.
Membership was open to all non-Brahmins. The South Indian Liberal Federation was founded in 1916 by a trio comprising two Tamils and a Malayalee. They were Theagaroya Chetty, C.Natesa Mudaliyar and T.M. Nair. An English newspaper Justice was started. Eventually, this led to the organization being known as the Justice Party.
The Nationalist Congress party was leading the struggle for Independence from the British. Many of the Congress leaders were educated Brahmins. The Justice Party, on the other hand, did not want independence from the British until social justice prevailed.
In other words, the Justice Party wanted independence to be delayed until social reform displaced Brahmin dominance.
It depicted the Congress as a Brahmin party. As a result, the Justice Party participated in the limited governance provided by the British and ran several administrations in the Madras Province from 1921.This co-operation has stigmatized the Justice party as collaborators of colonialism.
Gradually it became obvious that the non-Tamil linguistic groups were becoming less enamoured of Dravidian Nationalism.
Comparatively the Tamil speaking non-Brahmin elite was better off than others. This led to some heartburn and non-Tamil associations were formed to promote non-Tamil interests.
The Tamils were also at the forefront of Dravidianism as their language was the oldest and most developed of the Dravidian languages. Some regarded the other Dravidian languages as being derived from Tamil. Prof. Sundarampillai in a popular poem depicted the Kannada, Telugu, Malayalam and Thulu Languages as children born out of the Tamil mothers womb.
This also caused resentment. Incidentally, the above-mentioned poem Neeraarum Kadaludutha by Sundarampillai is the official Tamil Nadu anthem and is sung at all official state functions.
This resentment over perceived Tamil dominance led to a situation where the non-Tamil groups began moving away from the Dravidian consciousness. Dravidian was now being seen as coterminous with Tamil. Thus the non-Tamils were reluctant to be identified as Dravidians though scholars accepted the Dravidian linguistic label.
In that respect, one must note that the official reference to Tamil in Sinhala is Dravida. The Tamil United Liberation Front (TULF) is called Eksath Dravida Vimukthi Peramuna. Referring to Tamil as Demala is regarded as being somewhat colloquial.
If the South Indian languages were termed as Dravidian most North Indian languages were classified as Aryan or Indo-Aryan. Sanskrit was regarded as the mother of Indo-Aryan languages. Sanskrit, unlike Tamil, had gone out of usage as a language of communication in daily life among non - Brahmins but had spawned several numerically preponderant linguistic groups like Hindi.
The anthropological and archaeological wisdom propounded by the Dravidian school of thought at that time was that a pre-Aryan Dravidian civilization had existed in India before the Aryan invasion (This theory is strongly disputed by some now).

Sangham Literature
The Dravidian construct was that the Dravidians had a glorious civilization before being overrun by the Aryans. With the Brahmins retaining exclusive ownership of Sanskrit they were seen as Aryan aliens who were interlopers into the Dravidian country.
Citing the classical Sangam literature where people were classified in terms of territorial landscape (Anbinainthinai) rather than occupation it was argued that casteism did not exist among Tamils until the Aryans invaded. They had introduced caste with the Brahmins (Aryan) at the top and reduced the original inhabitants to inferior Shudra status. The vehicle for this was Hinduism it was alleged.
It was around this time that one of the greatest progressives and original thinkers of India made his impact on the South Indian political scene. This was Eevera or Erode Venkatappa Ramaswamy Naicker, who was born on September 17th, 1879.
Periyar (great person) Eevera as he was called by his followers was originally a Congress Party stalwart, who organized the successful satyagraha at Vaikom in present-day Kerala.
Periyar himself was not Tamil though hailing from Erode in the Salem District of Tamil Nadu.

The Tamils were also at the forefront of Dravidianism as their language was the oldest and most developed of the Dravidian languages. Some regarded the other Dravidian languages as being derived from Tamil. ....

Though fluent in Tamil, Ramaswamy belonged to a Kannada speaking Naicker family. Disgruntled at casteism practised by some Brahmin Congressmen, Periyar broke ranks and left the party. He also began enunciating radical thoughts about dislodging Brahmin dominance, espousing rationalism, propagating atheism, opposing North Indian hegemony, combatting caste oppression, encouraging equality of sexes.
In 1925 Periyar founded the Suyamariyadhai Iyakkam or Self-respect movement.
Arguing that the Hindu religion provided the basis for Brahmin superiority and that it kept the Dravidians in bondage to the Aryans, Periyar called for Atheism on the basis of rationalism or Pahutharivu. Kadavul Illai. Kadavulai Vanangubavan Muttaal (There is no God. Those who worship God are fools) the outspoken Periyar would assert.
He denied God saying-If there was no God there could be no religion. If there was no (Hindu) religion there could be no caste. If there was no caste then there cannot be caste oppression.
Periyar condemned the notion of Brahmin caste superiority as an affront to the self-respect and dignity of non-Brahmins and so formed the self-respect movement.
Subsequently, Periyar joined the Justice Party and became one of its prominent leaders. A large number of non-Brahmin Tamils began gathering around Periyar over the years.
They were called Suyamariyathaikkaran (Self  respect adherent)or Pahutharivaalan (Rationalist) and subscribed to Periyars views.
The most educated of these at that time was Conjeevaram Natarajan Annadurai an MA Graduate. Annadurai, known as Anna (elder brother) was born on September 15th, 1909. He became Periyars disciple in 1935.

Hindu India
By the late thirties/early forties of the previous century, both Periyar and Anna took up the stance that the Madras presidency should not form part of India and that it should be a separate state called Dravidastan or Dravida Nadu.
Being a part of Hindu India would only lead to the permanent enthronement of Aryanism, Brahminism and North Indian hegemony it was argued. Prior to this both Guru and Sishya had wanted a Tamil state on the basis of the Tamil Nadu for Tamils demand. Within a short time, they changed position and wanted a Dravida State on the basis of the Dravida Nadu for Dravidians demand.
Two factors brought about this political change for Periyar and Anna. One was the attempt to impose Hindi upon non-Hindi students by making the learning of Hindi a compulsory subject for all students. The other was the Muslim demand by Mohammed Ali Jinnah, for an Islamic theocratic State of Pakistan.
In 1937 the Congress Party extended limited cooperation to the British and contested local elections. The Congress formed the administration of Madras presidency and Chakravarthy Rajagopalachariyar known as Rajaji became Chief Minister. In 1938 Rajaji introduced legislation to make Hindi a compulsory language. It was argued that India needed a single language to unite all its people. This was resented by the non-Hindi people of Madras province. The Tamil people are very proud and fond of their language elevating it to the status of a mother (Thamil Thai).
It is a highly emotive issue and any attempt to belittle or demean Tamil was to be opposed. Hindi compulsion was an affront. It was described as a victory of Sanskrit over Tamil, Aryan over Dravidian and Brahmin over non-Brahmin. An anti-Hindi agitation was launched. Widespread protest demonstrations took place particularly in the Tamil speaking places of the presidency. There was Police firing and two Tamils Thalamuthu and Nadarajan were killed.
There were attempts of self-immolation also. Around 1,200 persons were brought to court and sentenced to jail. Among these were Periyar and Anna.
In 1939 the Congress withdrew from office and the Hindi imposition issue went away. But Periyar and Anna felt that a separate country was required to protect the Dravidian languages in general and Tamil in particular. The danger of Hindi being imposed in an Independent India was there.
Subsequent events in post-Independence India proved that these fears were not liars. The anti-Hindi agitation also made many Tamils including former Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Muttuvel Karunanidhi (Who was fourteen years old then) more conscious of their language and heritage.
The second factor was the demonstration effect of the Muslim League and its demand for the creation of an Independent Islamic State of Pakistan. Periyar supported Jinnahs demand for a territorially non-contiguous State of Pakistan comprising Muslim majority regions in the east and west of India.
Periyar then embarked on a tour of north India and met Jinnah in person. Anna did the interpreting. He argued for a Dravida State on the lines of an Islamic State. Jinnah was assured that the 7% Muslims in the envisaged State would enjoy full rights.
As a result, Jinnah began referring to a Pakistan for Muslims, a Hindustan for Aryans, a Dravidastan for Dravidians and a Bengalistan for Bengalis. Whenever he spoke of Pakistan Jinnah also referred briefly to Dravidastan during the Second World War.
After the war when the prospect of partition became a real possibility, Jinnah, abandoned support for Dravidastan. It was only a two-nation theory-Hindu and Islam-thereafter.

Separate State
The initial support by Jinnah, however, boosted Periyars thoughts on a separate State. The envisaged Dravidian State was referred to as both Dravidastan (Jinnah inspired) and Dravida Nadu in Tamil.
The support for a Dravida State was predominantly extended by Tamils alone. Apart from the brief mention in English media, the non-Tamil South Indians were lukewarm, to this concept.
Shortly after the anti-Hindi agitation, Periyar was elected president of the Justice Party. With this, the anti-Brahmin self-respect movement and anti-Brahmin Justice Party or South Indian Liberal Federation experienced some form of fusion in practice. By this time the Justice Party was practically a Tamil party with most non-Tamils dropping out. There were, however, a few well-known non-Tamil leaders in the party but practically no support from the Telugu, Malayalee, Kannada masses.
Interestingly Periyar and Anna toyed briefly with Tamil secessionism and called for a Tamil State, before opting formally for greater Dravidian separatism and a Dravidian state. The reasons for this, the interlude is rather intriguing.
The growing anti-Hindi consciousness among non-Brahmin Tamils was manifesting itself in many ways. In August 1938 a prominent Justice Party leader T.P. Vedachalam from Trichy formed the Tamil Thesa Viduthalai Sangam (Tamil Nation Liberation Society) and began demanding the creation of a separate State for the Tamils.

Annadurai followed suit by speaking at several Tamil Nadu for the Tamils meetings where he eloquently appealed for the creation of a separate State for the Tamils of India

At the second session of the Ramnad District Tamilians Conference at Karaikudi, it was resolved to work for the formation of a separate Tamil province, exclusively for Tamilians, and the use of Tamil as the administrative language.
A series of small meetings were held at various places in Tamil Nadu. These were attended by nondescript Tamils and presided over by little-known personalities. But almost all these meetings passed resolutions calling for a separate Tamil State.
Thamizh Nadu Thamizharukke (Tamil Nadu is for Tamils) was the catchy and inspiring slogan that gathered momentum. This groundswell of opinion was something that Periyar and Anna could not ignore. The growing sentiments of Tamils in Madras State had to be addressed. So both briefly adopted the Tamil State cry instead of the Dravida state demand for some time.
At a meeting held at Salem in October 1938 Periyar for the first time called for a Tamil State. He said that If the Congress permitted the exploitation of Tamils by Brahmins and Northern Indians, the best way to preserve the liberty of Tamils was to agitate for separation from the rest of India and the proposed All-India Federation, just as Ceylon and Burma had chosen to stand aloof from India and urged the need for the Tamilnadu for the Tamils campaign to be fought to the finish.
Annadurai followed suit by speaking at several Tamil Nadu for the Tamils meetings where he eloquently appealed for the creation of a separate State for the Tamils of India.

Tamil Nadu for Tamils
The Tamil Nadu for Tamils demand began to gather momentum slowly.
The imposition of Hindi as compulsory in schools and consequent protests enhanced support for this demand. The need for an autonomous Tamil State under British rule as well as an Independent Tamil Country in the future was discussed and debated at local levels.
The Tamil Nadu for Tamils demand was suspended before it could capture the popular imagination. This was because Periyar and Anna did a volte-face and re-activated the Dravida Nadu state demand.
In 1939 Eevera Periyar organized the Dravida Nadu Conference for the advocacy of a separate, sovereign and federal republic of Dravida Nadu.
In a rousing speech on December 17, 1939, Periyar proclaimed Dravida Nadu for Dravidians. This replaced the earlier slogan Tamil Nadu for Tamils.
This heralded the shift in policy but there was much confusion. The ensuing months saw people advocating both a Tamil state and a Dravidian state. To many Tamils, there was no difference in both. With the wisdom of hindsight, it appears that to both Periyar and Anna the demand for a Dravidian State and Tamil State was synonymous. The core of both demands was the existing Madras province. It also appears that most advocates of South Indian secessionism also failed to draw a distinction between both demands.
July 1940 saw a secession committee being formed at the Dravida Nadu Secession Conference organized by Periyars disciple C.N. Annadurai known as Anna at Kanchipuram his hometown.
In this conference, Periyaar displayed a map of the envisaged Dravida Nadu. It basically corresponded to the existing Madras Presidency. This conference was followed by the Madras Province conference of the South Indian Liberal Federation known popularly as the Justice party at Thiruvaaroor. On August 24, 1940, the Thiruvaaroor Provincial Conference resolved that Dravida Nadu should be a Thani Naadu or Independent state.

Total Self-Rule
Some of the objectives of Dravida Naadu were defined as-attaining Poorana Swaraj or total self-rule from the British and complete control in social, economic and industrial, and commercial fields; liberating Dravidians from domination and exploitation by non-Dravidian foreigners: acquiring equal rights and opportunities for Dravida Nadu citizens and eradication of discrimination and inequalities arising on grounds of caste and class: abolition of superstitious beliefs caused by religion etc.
Furthermore, Periyaar outlined the characteristics of Dravida Nadu as-the area then comprising Madras Presidency; A passport system to enter the State; duty on goods from other provinces and entry approved only with permits; re-demarcation of boundaries if necessary and continuing the existing system of defence till grant of full Independence. Religious freedom was assured to Muslims, Christians, Jains, Sikhs and Buddhists of Dravida Nadu. The right to be an atheist, agnostic or non-religious was ensured. Separation of Politics and Religion was guaranteed.
Periyar also stated that Self Respect should come before self-rule thereby implying that social justice and reform should precede political independence from Britain. Even as the Dravida Nadu demand gathered momentum Periyaar suspended all political agitation for the cause one year later in
August 1941.
He explained that Dravidians should extend full co-operation to the British in World War II. This caused a political lull in Dravidian secessionist advocacy.

Sinhala Fears of Annexation
Although Periyar had defined the envisaged boundaries of Dravida Nadu there were some who spoke of a Greater Dravida Nadu incorporating regions in Burma, Singapore, Malaya and Ceylon where Tamils were concentrated.
This was not a serious demand and was made by insignificant personalities. But in Sri Lanka (then Ceylon) the assertion was treated with suspicion and sowed the seeds of fear about annexation into a greater Dravidian homeland in the future.
As stated earlier the official reference to Tamil in Sinhala is Dravida. The Tamil United Liberation Front (TULF) is called Eksath Dravida Vimukthi Peramuna. Referring to Tamil as Demala is regarded as being somewhat colloquial.
Thus the threat of a greater Dravida Nadu annexing areas in the Island with substantial concentrations of Tamils loomed large in the Sinhala psyche.
These fears were exploited by irresponsible and unscrupulous political elements. Sadly that mindset of suspicion and fear prevails even to this day among some sections of Sinhala society.
D.B.S. Jeyaraj can be reached at dbsjeyaraj@yahoo.com



 
		
==============================
## Title: Towards a deeper understanding
## Section: News Features
## Date: 2 December 2017 12:00 am
Towards a deeper understanding
	
When the Exalted One, the Tathagata Gautama was dwelling at the Veluwanarama Vihara (the bamboo groove), a young Bhikkhu known as Achirawata Samanera, brought to the notice of the Buddha, certain comments made by a Prince named Jayasena, during a discussion held between
the two.
Prince Jayasena had told the Samanera Achirawata, that he did not believe that an ordinary householder, who enters the order of Maha Sangha would reach a higher standard beyond the ten Transcendental Virtues.
The Buddha then explained to the Samanera that understanding of the Four Noble Truths is the highest wisdom which leads to the ultimatereality Nibbana.

Two men, one at the foot of a mountain and the other at the top of a mountain said, that the panoramic views sighted by the person at the top of the mountain cannot be viewed or visualized by the person who is at the foot of the mountain. ...

Accordingly, in Buddhism there are two descriptions of understandings; what we generally call understanding is knowledge, an accumulated memory or an intellectual grasping of a subject according to certain given data. This is Anubodha means knowing accordingly but not much deeper.
On the other hand, the Pativeda is penetration, the real deep understanding. This stage comes only when the mind of a person is free from all impurities and is fully developed through transcendental virtues.
Middle Path is the way to gain Samma Sambodhi or the Supreme Enlightenment. The virtues are Generosity (Dana) Morality (Sila) Renunciation (Nekkhamma), Wisdom (Panna), Energy (Viriya), Patience (Kanti), Truthfulness (Sacca), Determination (Addittana) loving-kindness (Metta) and
Equanimity (Upekkha).
The Buddha explained:
Achirawata, now a person with no knowledge of such experience or gain cannot realize the essence of the Dhamma. The Tatagatha then citing an example of two men, one at the foot of a mountain and the other at the top of a mountain said, that the panoramic views sighted by the person at the top of the mountain cannot be viewed or visualized by the person who is at the foot of the mountain. Such is the situation when there is lack of experience and wisdom.
The Tatagatha further explained to Samanera Achirawata, that those ones who are involved in sensual pleasures could not make an intelligent assessment of the benefits of the Dhamma or stages of Dhyana, that a Bhikkhu could attain or reach.
When the person at the top of the mountain gives a description of the beautiful sites he could view such as the ponds, rivers, gardens and landscapes. The person at the foot of the mountain would not agree to believe or accept what the other says, until or unless he too climbs up to the summit.
Therefore Achirawata do not be perturbed by such ignorant comments Prince Jayasenas failure to realize the truth should not be a problem.
A devotee desirous to attain the Sublime state of mind needs to act energetically and enterprisingly bypassing many a challenge and barricades during the sansaric journey (Cycle of rebirth), along with the Rightful Path.
The Udana Vakya expressed by Sakyamuni Tathagata Gautama was
Anekajati Sansaram Sandhavissam Anivvisam,
Gahakarakam Gavesanto Dukkha Jati Punuppunam,
Gaha Karaka Dittosi Punageham Na Kahasi,
Sabba te Phasuka Baggha Gahakutam Visamkhitam,
Visamkharagatam Cittam Tanharam Khayam Ajjaga.
Through many, a birth in existence wandered I. Seeking but not finding, builder of this house. Sorrowful is repeated birth. O house-builder thou art seen. Thou shall build no house again. All thy rafters are broken thy ridge-pole is shattered. Mind attains the unconditioned, achieved is the end of craving.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Unduvap, Sangamitta, Sri Mahabodhi and the Buddhist way
## Section: News Features
## Date: 2 December 2017 12:00 am
Unduvap, Sangamitta, Sri Mahabodhi and the Buddhist way
	

Unduvap is the last Full Moon day of the year and it commemorates the arrival of Sangamitta Therini with a Bo sapling from the Jaya Sri Maha Bodhi in India. She arrived in the port of Dambakola Patuna in the Northern-most point in the island after a seven-day journey from India.
The sacred Bo sapling was brought here in a golden bowl, and it was planted in the Mahameuna Uyana in Anuradhapura. Saplings that emerged from it were taken to various parts of the island to spread the Buddha Dhamma and Buddhist culture. Visit by Sangamitta Therini was beneficial to us in many ways other than of bringing the Bo sapling. Her retinue included people skilled in different crafts and disciplines like woodwork, indigenous medicine, agriculture; they shared their expertise with the locals.
These skills have been handed down through generations and employed for the advancement of this nation. Arahat Mahindas arrival with his sister was a beginning of a new chapter in the history of Sri Lankan womanhood. It paved the way for a disciplined and a peaceful society. The art and architecture, construction of huge stupas and tanks began. The agricultural economy flourished in the island.

Buddhism tells us precisely and objectively what we are and what the world around us is, and explains us the way to perfect liberty, tranquillity, peace, and happiness.

Young good-looking, charming Sangamitta, entered the Bhikkuni Sasana at the age of 18 years.
Sangamitta, Arahat Mahinda Theras sister, appealed to King Dharmasoka, her father stating:
Oh, Great King, the order of my brother is very important and the females who are to be ordained in Lanka are manyon that account, it is absolutely necessary that I should go there
Sangamitta was only 32 years of age when she undertook this task. Anula Devi, who had already become a follower of the Dhamma along with King Devanam Piyatissa, wished to be ordained into the Nuns Order. Mahinda Thera informed his inability to do so, and he advised the King to send a message to Emperor and obtain the services of his sister Sangamitta Therini, to be deputed as her son a samanera, who had joined his uncle Mahindas mission was already in Sri Lanka. Earlier Arahat Mahinda arrived in Mihintale on Poson Poya day to spread Dhamma in the island of Sri Lanka. A request from the King of Lanka, Devanam Piyatissa, Asokas friend followed. He decided to send daughter Sangamitta with an entourage of ten learned Bhikkhuni, and craftsmen to Sri Lanka.
Mahavansa says, the King Devanam Piyatissa, with all pomp and pageantry, paying his highest respect and honour, wading neck deep into the ocean, received the golden bowl containing the Sri Maha Bodhi Sapling, which is respected to-date and honoured as the living Buddha.
The first Sri Lankan woman to be ordained as a Buddhist nun was princess Anula who was ordained by Sangamitta therini, who carried out the pabbajja ordination, which means to go forth, it is an instance of a person leaving abode to become a Bhikkhu; this generally involves introductory ordination as a novice monk. These great activities, exchange of gifts of Dhamma and relations between nations were possible mostly due to the consensual attitudes of the rulers that existed under monastic rulers in the ancient times.
More than 1,000 of Anula Devis companions were also bestowed with pabbajja ordination, which created the first priestly life of the Bhikkuni Sasana in Sri Lanka. Her name became synonymous with Female Monastic Order or Meheni Sasna of Theravada that was recognized not only on this island but also in China, Burma, and Thailand.

Good Governance and economics of Dhamma
Buddhism does not abandon the material and worldly characteristics of life but considers saintly values are more sacred than material morals and standards. The scriptures set out certain standards of conduct for kings as well as subjects [rulers and people]. Buddha has spelt out his preference for a democratic form of governance while observing different types of governments existed at the time.
Dighajanu once told the Buddha:
Sir, we are ordinary lay men, leading the family life with wife and children. Would the Blessed One teach us some doctrines which will be conducive to our happiness in this world and hereafter The Buddha advised him on four things which are conductive to a mans contentment in this samsara: number one; he should be efficient, skilled, energetic and earnest in whatever profession he is occupied, and he should know it thoroughly; second: he should look after his possession, which he has thus earned virtuously, with the sweat of his brow; third: he should have kalya<U+1E47>a-mitta or good friends who are learned, virtuous, faithful, liberal and intelligent, who will direct him along the correct path away from immorality; fourth: he should use up reasonably his expenses, in proportion to his returns meaning he should live within his resources.

The pragmatic view Governance
Since the commencement of human development religion has been an important aspect of our society and culture. According to anthropologists, the main world religions started as the activities of enlightenment and revival for societies seeking more broad answers to their problems, though the beginning of religious thinking in our ancestors remain vague.
The easiest way to describe religion is to refer to it as a belief in, or the reverence of a god. We have observed the religious groups establishing powerful and convincing inspirations in men by creating ideas of what is moral and what is considered immoral.
The religion has been at the receiving end of criticism for decades for its destructive effects on society, holy wars jihad, terrorism, such as brainwashing.
It seems clear that for a great number of people, religion offers the strength and help necessary to deal with continual troubles or misfortunes. They argue that religious viewpoints are irrational and without a scientific base. Religious activities all over the world seem to become institutions. However, for many, their religious values are the incentives to become superior people.
Buddhism does not tempt people into living in a fools paradise; it does not scare and agonize people with all kinds of fantasy fears and guilt-feelings; it is rational practical, and offers a pragmatic view of life and of the world. It does not generate religious extremist to disturb the followers of other faiths.
Buddhism tells us precisely and objectively what we are and what the world around us is, and explains us the way to perfect liberty, tranquillity, peace, and happiness.
Can a supreme Sangha Council ban monks from participating in demonstrations, in politics, contesting elections and decorating the political stages with Buddha Chivara, which is held in high veneration by lay Buddhists.
What sort of influence a Maha Sangha Council led by Mahanayake Theras will have over the State and the political leadership Are there any parallels in the past where Maha Sangha stepped in to quench similar situations as noted here Engage in Gurukam, the practice of soothsaying, andother occult activities. Attending educational institutions meant for the laymen.

Buddhism and Social Contract
Prof. K. N. Jayatillake, says;
According to Buddhist theory of social contract, sovereignty in the sense of the supreme legislative power is vested in the people as a whole.: Hague 1977-pp127.
According to ancient Buddhist scriptures, the first ruler the people selected to maintain law and order, was Mahasammatha. Even an individual who becomes a ruler by virtue of inscriptive rights should win the approval of people in order to continue his position.
The Buddhist theory for politics is not idealistic but practical. The Buddhist political theory suggests solving societys problems based on the following principles. The ruler should always establish a hot-line with the people. The pulse of the people should be felt by the government by way of popular representation; open discussion and consensus, allowing public opinion to manifest itself. Such opinion should reflect itself in rulers policy.
Buddhist thinking believes in two principles the ruler should practice in his state-craft. Mahaoshada in Ummagga Jataka represents the youth.
It is the best example where we observe how the theory is translated into practical terms. His very young age contrast with the other four advisors or counsellors of the kings were men who hailed from upper-class families, whose wisdom is pitted against Mahaoshada. The wise young man, the symbol of political power arises from the ordinary farming classes. They ridiculed him saying Goviya-puthu [Son of a farmer]. The Mahosahadas ascendancy to power thus has to be analysed from this point of viewpolitical power has no birth attached to it. The ruler could overcome anger or hatred with kindness, evil with good, greed with charity and falsehood with truth.
It should rightly belong to the ordinary people than to those who claim it as a prerogative coming from their birth. That he could meet force with force, mildness with mildness; win over the good with good and establish victory on evil with nothing but evil.
Of these two policies, as the Jataka stories tell, the second which attempts to conquer hatred with kindness is regarded as the best policy. That is what our rulers past and present lacks today.
May all beings be happy!
 
		
==============================
## Title: US must do more to tackle far-Right  extremists: Theresa May
## Section: International
## Date: 2 December 2017 12:01 am
US must do more to tackle far-Right  extremists: Theresa May
	

Theresa May has said the US must do more to tackle far-Right extremists as she refused to back down in her spat with Donld Trump.
The Prime Minister hit back at Mr Trumps jibe that she is not tackling terrorism in Britain as an extraordinary spat threatened to blow the Special Relationship apart. 
Despite Mr Trump lashing out at her last night demanding she focus on Islamic terrorism taking place in the UK, Mrs May said she would not be afraid to raise concerns about such interventions.
She also did little to quell speculation that a visit from Mr Trump has now being kicked into the long grass, stressing that no date has been set.
A senior US diplomat also raised further doubts on the upcoming visit, telling the Daily Telegraph: The idea of a visit has obviously been floated, but not December and not January. I would not expect a Trump visit in January.
Trump was due to visit Britain in January 2018 to officially open Americas new London embassy, but the clash with May seems to have pushed any plans aside.Questioned by journalists during a visit to Jordan this afternoon, Mrs May said: ... I am very clear that retweeting from Britain First was the wrong thing to do and I think that we must all take seriously the threat that far-Right groups pose and both in terms of the terrorist threat that is posed by those groups and the necessity of dealing with extremist material which is far-Right as well. - UK, (Daily Mail), 1 December 2017
 
		
==============================