## Title: A President stopped in his tracks and a country in a quagmire - EDITORIAL
## Section: Opinion
## Date: 17 December 2018 12:01 am
A President stopped in his tracks and a country in a quagmire - EDITORIAL
	
ith the resignation of former President Rajapaksa from the post of Prime Minister on Saturday, and the re installation of Ranil Wickremesinghe as Prime Minister on Sunday, the Constitutional crisis which engulfed the country since October, appears to be at long last coming to an end. The crisis grew out of President Sirisenas ill-advised sacking of incumbent Prime Minister Ranil Wickremasinghe in contravention to the 19th Amendment to the Constitution which the President himself ushered through parliament.

His controversial appointment of former President Rajapaksa as Premier despite the latter not commanding a majority in the House threw the country into confusion. It also led to charges that the president was acting ultra vires to the Constitution. When the new PM could not prove his majority in parliament, the president dissolved parliament and fixed dates for a fresh election.

This in turn led to the presidents decision to dissolve parliament being challenged in the Supreme Court and his appointment of a new Prime Minister and Cabinet being challenged in the Court of Appeal. In the aftermath of Premier Rajapaksas inability to show a majority in parliament, the new government said it was boycotting parliament claiming the Speaker was not acting partially.

The new turn of events led to 122 Members of Parliament seeking an order in the nature of Quo Warranto declaring that Mahinda Rajapaksa was not entitled to hold the office of PM. On December 3, the Court of Appeal issued an Interim Order restraining Prime Minister Rajapaksa and his Cabinet of Ministers from functioning until the petition against them was heard. The Court of Appeal after hearing the arguments of both sides ruled irreversible damage could be caused if persons not entitled to do so, sit as Prime Minister and Cabinet.
On December 13, a seven-Judge Bench of the Supreme Court stopped President Sirisena in his tracks when it unanimously ruled his (Presidents) November 9 dissolution of parliament was unconstitutional. The Court ruled the President did not have the authority to dismiss parliament or hold a snap election.The Courts ruling further extended the turmoil President Sirisena threw the country into, when without any warning he sacked the incumbent Prime Minister on October 26.
The President also claimed Premier Wickremesinghe was not following up on an accusation of a plot to assassinate him (the President) and claimed Wickremesinghes refusal to take the accusation seriously was the final nail in the coffin so-to-say which led to his dismissal. Sadly investigations have not found substantial evidence to back up the charge of a plot to assassinate the president. What is clear however, is that the drama paralyzed the country and and left it without a functioning government for nearly two months.
Tensions reached boiling point, which led to scandalous scenes in Parliament when members of the newly appointed government attacked the Speaker of the House, while a member of the deposed government attacked an opponent with a knife-like cutting instrument in parliament. Former President Rajapaksas resignation on Saturday, came a day after the Supreme Court upheld the Court of Appeals suspension of Rajapaksa and his cabinet.
After nearly two months without a functioning government, it seems the country will be able to extricate itself from the morass it has been bogged in. A Vote of Account can now be passed, without which the country faced a likelihood of going into lock down from January 2019 as it faced a prospect of being unable to access state funds to meet its commitments or service the massive external debt amounting to over a $ billion.
While these tumultuous events continued to take place, the President has continued claiming he would not re-appoint Wickremesinghe (whose dismissal led to the continuing drama), as Prime Minister. However it appears that saner counsel has prevailed and Wickremesinghe was sworn-in as PM yesterday December 16.
The upshot of the two-month imbroglio is that it has left both the presidency and parliament diminished. The events of the past five weeks has also shown the danger posed by the executive presidency, where all power is reposed in the hands of a single individual. It brings to mind the urgency for abolishing the executive presidential system of government which all political parties have condemned at one point or another.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Cabinet may delayed as discussion drag
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 17 December 2018 08:34 am
Cabinet may delayed as discussion drag
	
The swearing-in of Cabinet Ministers is likely to be delayed since discussions were still underway on the assignment of portfolios to MPs joining the Government from the United Peoples Freedom Alliance (UPFA), sources said last afternoon.
Initially, the United National Party (UNP) wanted to entertain only 10 MPs from the UPFA. However, party sources told the Daily Mirror yesterday that 21 UPFA MPs were ready to team up with the new Government.
As a result, they said the Government had been unable so far to decide on the Ministries to be assigned to them.
The UNP will also sign a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with Sri Lanka Muslim Congress (SLMC) to form a national government enabling it to increase the Cabinet to more than 30 members, the source said.
Otherwise, the Cabinet has to be restricted to 30 in keeping with the 19th Amendment to the Constitution, the source said.
The national government means the one formed by the party with the highest number of seats in Parliament in alliance with another party.
President Maithripala Sirisena said that the UPFA would not join hands with the UNP though he would not oppose any of his MPs joining the new government individually.
Accordingly, the UNP has decided to tie up with the SLMC.
There is one MP- Ali Zahir Moulana- elected to Parliament on the SLMC. The five other SLMC members were elected on the UNP ticket.
Besides, Parliament has to pass a resolution with a simple majority to exceed the Cabinet more than 30.(Kelum Bandara)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Cabinet may have to be increased: Nalin B
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 17 December 2018 05:03 pm
Cabinet may have to be increased: Nalin B
	
The number of members in the Cabinet might have to be increased a little more than 30 if the need arises, UNP MP Nalin Bandara Jayamaha said today.
Mr Jayamaha told a press conference that the number of members in the Cabinet might have to be increased slightly though every effort was made to confine it to 30 members.
We will try our utmost to limit the number of Cabinet Ministers to 30 but we might have to increase it if the need arises. However, some of the UNPers are ready to sacrifice ministerial portfolios and work for the people, Mr Jayamaha said.
He said the UNP would hand-pick SLFPers who were willing to join the Government.
We in the UNP has decided that certain SLFPers should not be invited to the Government and Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe has assured the UNP Parliamentary Group that he would accept SLFPers only with their approval, he added.
We believe that we can carry on with a simple majority like Former President Chandrika Kumaratunga did in 1994 with a razor-thin majority, he also said.
Asked whether MP Ravi Karunanayake would be given a ministerial portfolio, he said there was a possibility as the Attorney General had cleared him.
UNP MP Mujibur Rahman said his party could not agree with everything President Maithripala Sirisena said in his speech.
The only allegation which Prime Minister Wickremesinghe faced was the CB bond issue affair but President himself appointed a Commission on it and it had not held Mr Wickremesinghe responsible for it, he said. (Yohan Perera)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Crookedly parked cars will be towed away: Police
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 17 December 2018 03:29 pm
Crookedly parked cars will be towed away: Police
	
Vehicles parked on pavements blocking traffic and pavements would be towed away, the Police said today.
They said that they would take action to remove the vehicles which were parked along the road in main cities blocking roads or parked on pavements during the festival session.
They said it had been observed that most of the drivers, who had come to main cities across the country especially during the festival session, used to park their vehicles along the main roads and blocking the pavements.
They said unnecessary traffic congestion had been reported most of the time due to authorized parking, causing inconvenience to the public.
Police said action would be taken against motorists from the Police Stations across the country as legal provision had been granted under the Motor Traffic Act No 40 of 1984.
Section 167 (4) of the Act states: "Where in the opinion of a police officer any obstruction is caused to traffic on any highway or public sidewalk by a motor vehicle halted, or parked on a highway, or by any object, thing or material, such police officer may cause the motor vehicle causing such obstruction or such other object, thing or material to be removed and charge the cost of such removal to the owner.
According to Section 167 (5); No police officer shall be held liable in damage for any damage caused in good faith in the course of the removal of a motor vehicle, object, thing or material under subsection (4)."(Darshana Sanjeewa)
 
		
==============================
## Title: EU welcomes SL political resolution
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 17 December 2018 12:20 pm
EU welcomes SL political resolution
	
The Delegation of the European Union today welcomed the peaceful and democratic resolution of the political crisis in Sri Lanka in accordance with the constitution.
 As steady friends of Sri Lanka, we welcome the peaceful and democratic resolution of the political crisis in accordance with the constitution. We commend the resilience of Sri Lanka's democratic institutions and will continue to support its efforts towards national reconciliation and prosperity for all, the Delegation of the European Union said in a statement in agreement with the EU Ambassadors and the Norwegian Ambassador resident in Colombo.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Fight for Justice
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 17 December 2018 03:00 pm
Fight for Justice
	
A rally organized by the United National Front (UNF) Fight for Justice is underway at Galle Face Green. Pix by Pradeep Pathirana



 
		
==============================
## Title: Have yourself a merry little Christmasget creative and save money
## Section: Mirror For Hope
## Date: 17 December 2018 10:42 am
Have yourself a merry little Christmasget creative and save money
	

Think outside the box this Christmas with these tips and tricks that not only save you money but makes you feel good!

1. Dont waste money on wrapping paper!
The global wrapping paper industry which is worth billions of dollars is not one you need to buy into. Its also bad for the environment as most wrapping paper cant be recycled due to the lamination. Instead, wrap your gifts in old newspaper or brown paper and decorate with fabric ribbons. The Japanese use a method known as furoshiki which involves wrapping gifts in cloth which the receiver can then re-use themselves for gift giving. The fabric is simply tied around the gift and uses no sticking tape or string. You may like to upcycle fabric from home  even an old t-shirt can be redesigned with some fabric paint into a beautiful wrapper. Decide as a family to stop using commercial wrapping paper by making a new tradition in which you continue to swap your furoshiki with your family.
2.Give the gift of your time
Instead of buying presents that may sit in the back of a cupboard forever, gift friends and family with a voucher, offering your time or a service. It may be something simple as I owe you a morning of gardening help or I offer a day of babysitting. You could even offer to teach children a musical instrument or second language if that is your strength. This may cost you nothing, but means so much to the receiver.

3.Embrace the potluck concept
Buying, preparing and cooking dinner for a big family is not only expensive and stressful, but time consuming. Instead of taking on the whole task yourself, offer to make the main meals and then coordinate with the other guests for the appetizers, sides, salads, desserts and any drinks. Create a list that is able to be viewed by all guests that shows what each person is bringing to avoid double ups. This takes the stress off you to be able to enjoy hosting a Christmas meal and save money as well.

4.Give the gift of compassion
You know those people that seem to have everything and are impossible to buy for Why not give them a gift of charity It could be anything from sponsoring an endangered animal in Africa, to donating clean drinking water to a developing community. International groups such as The Intrepid Foundations Global Gifts program not only offers many different projects but the company will match every donation you make.
If you would rather buy a gift and donate locally, groups such as Voice for Voiceless have a list of goods on their website that they require to help support vulnerable people in the community. New furniture, sports equipment, kitchen appliances and even toys (second-hand is ok here) are all very much needed.
5.Focus more on experiences
While there is the temptation to have a Christmas tree laden with presents underneath it, most people when actually asked would rather spend time with their loved ones than receive material gifts. Surprise them with a safari in a national park or a spa day at a local hotel. Sri Lanka is full of experiences waiting to be had that can also be enjoyed as a family or friendship group and youll create memories for years to come.

6.Participate in a Secret Santa
Perfect for large families, workplaces or friendship groups as it means you only have to buy one gift. In the weeks leading up to Christmas put the names of everyone who wants to participate into a hat/box. Each participant then draws out one name which indicates who they are supposed to gift. Setting a maximum cost for the gift that everyone is comfortable with will take the pressure away from gift giving this festive season. Do this and watch everyone enjoy the surprise on the day.

7.Create your own gift
Giving a personalized gift such as a homemade jar of jam or face scrub is a wonderful idea to make someone feel special. If you are an avid gardener, how about gifting someone with a home grown plant You can also design your own Christmas cards or gift tags to add an extra special touch to your gift.
We would love to know if you have any of your own money and sanity saving Christmas tips. Email us onmirrorforhope@gmail.com


 
		
==============================
## Title: Heavy traffic on Galle Road due to UNF rally
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 17 December 2018 02:31 pm
Heavy traffic on Galle Road due to UNF rally
	
Heavy traffic was reported along the Galle Road from Kollupitiya Junction towards Colombo Fort due to a protest rally organized by the United National Front (UNF) at the Galle Face Green, Police said.
 
		
==============================
## Title: JUDICIARY AS GUARANTOR OF THE RULE OF LAW
## Section: Opinion
## Date: 17 December 2018 12:05 am
JUDICIARY AS GUARANTOR OF THE RULE OF LAW
	
Synopsis of the keynote address by Justice A. W. A. Salaam at the annual Sri Lanka Judges Association Conference on Dec. 14, 2018 at Hotel Hilton, Colombo.
A.W.A. Salaam Sri Lankas Consular General in Jeddah

The judiciary as the guarantor of the rule of law is the theme of the conference this year. I have the greatest satisfaction of having very closely worked with JSA as a member, Secretary to JSC and President, Court of appeal. 
Judicial Service Association has a longstanding reputation for being the bastion of the rule of law and for its struggle to restore judicial independence. The Association has fought hard to preserve the dignity of the Judges in many ways. Your Association for the first time in history in the year 2014 took the drastic measure of keeping away from work as a collective professional body when there was controversy over the procedure adopted to remove the Chief
Justice at that time. 
You are well aware that the constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka assures to everyone freedom, equality, justice, fundamental human rights and on top of that the independence of the judiciary as the intangible heritage that guarantees the dignity and well-being of succeeding generations of the people of Sri Lanka. According to the constitution, the Sovereignty is in the people and is inalienable. The Sovereignty includes the powers of government, fundamental rights, and the franchise.
In terms of Article 4, the Legislative power of the people is exercised by Parliament through the elected representatives and the executive power by the President of the Republic. The judicial power quite importantly is exercised by Parliament but only through Courts tribunals and institutions created and established by the Constitution and other laws. 
You will now see therefore the Supreme Court, Court of Appeal and the High Court of Sri Lanka are the creations of the Constitution itself while the Courts of First Instance and Civil Appellate Courts are created by the Judicature Act, in terms of the enabling Provision contained in Article 105. Hence, the judicial power of the people is exercised by these courts. It is a rigid rule that the Parliament is not permitted to exercise the judicial power of the people by itself. The parliament is empowered to exercise judicial power for a very limited purpose. That is to decide matters relating to the breach of Parliamentary Privileges. 
A close Supreme scrutiny of article 4 which sets out the various mechanisms through which sovereignty is exercised shows a clear separation of powers among various institutions. This is quite evident to establish the salutary concept of checks and balances in our system. Besides, the Legislature Executive and Judiciary being the indispensable components of our democratic system enjoy a wide range of powers, wielding enormous influence over one another and constantly are able to prevent any one of the three branches abusing its powers. 

"It is a rigid rule that the Parliament is not permitted to exercise the judicial power of the people by itself. The parliament is empowered to exercise judicial power for a very limited purpose. That is to decide matters relating to the breach of Parliamentary Privileges."
Last Thursdays (Dec 13) historical judgment of the Supreme Court is a classic example to demonstrate the clear separation of powers. It also speaks for volumes as to the independence of the Judiciary and the non-interfering policy of the three organs with the functions vested in each other. Turning to the theme of the conference, let me remind ourselves at the outset of the endeavours this country has taken forward towards the restoration of the rule of law. These endeavours include the drastic legislative measures initiated to re-establish a more independent judiciary. 
The 19th Amendment to the constitution was one such step taken forward appreciably without any controversy and every member of Parliament voting for it. One of the objectives of the amendment was to regularise the appointment of the President and other Judges of the court of appeal, and the Chief Justice and other Judges of the Supreme Court. An independent judiciary is the cornerstone of a democratic society based on the rule of law. We are proud to be the citizens of a country in which serious endeavours are taken forward to establish the rule of law.
Establishing or restoring the rule of law in any country would undoubtedly command the public confidence and therefore it is the paramount duty not only of the Judiciary but the Executive and the Legislature as well to promote the rule of law. There is also a corresponding duty cast on every citizen of this country to preserve and protect the independence of the judiciary and its dignity. We live in a society in which the judicial institutions are treated as sacred as our places of worship. 
The people of the country, therefore, are obliged to protect the judicial independence not for the benefit of the judiciary alone but for their own benefit. Judicial independence means and includes that Judges are not subject to pressure and influence and are free to make impartial decisions solely on the fact and law. It is a concept widely spoken but hardly put into effect except in very few countries across the globe. A question worth being raised at this point is whether we have ever enjoyed such independence, commanding the public respect or had there been any serious threat to the independence of the judiciary in the past 
We have had several threats to that independence during the past 40 years under the 1978 constitution. During the last 40 years, we have faced 3 unsuccessful impeachment motions against the Chief Justices. In addition, there was also a threat to summarily dismiss the Supreme Court Judges and send them home for allegedly not taking the oath in terms of the 6th Amendment in 1983.
In terms of the 6th Amendment, the Supreme Court Judges were under a duty to subscribe to an oath before the President to the effect that they would not support any attempt to establish a separate state. The Supreme Court Judges by an oversight took their oath before each other and not before the President. Upon this default, the Chambers of the Supreme Court Judges were locked up and kept under police guard not allowing them to enter. There was wide speculation that they had vacated their posts. Moves were underway to reappoint Judges leaving out those whom the President did not like. 
In this scenario, the question was raised in the Supreme Court as to whether it was mandatory to take the oath before the President himself or whether it could be considered as sufficient compliance if the oath was taken before someone who is empowered to administer the oath. The Supreme Court being the sole authority to interpret the constitution ultimately, by their bold and fearless interpretation held that it is the fact of taking an oath which is mandatory but not the person before whom it is taken. This was a landmark Judgment of the Supreme Court which asserted the independence of the judiciary in a remarkable manner. 
The next attempt was to impeach the former Chief Justice Neville Samarakoon on the basis that he had criticized the Government on the job bank issue at a prize-giving ceremony held at the Sinnathurai institute, Wellawatte. Serious objection was taken in that case before the Parliamentary Select Committee as to the jurisdiction of the select committee to hear and determine the allegation against the Chief Justice based on the fact that the select committee was going into a question of judicial nature which has to be tried after the procedure for the proof of misbehaviour or incapacity is provided by parliament. The select committee found the objection to be meaningful and substantial in nature but did not find the Chief Justice guilty of having made a statement rendering him totally unbecoming of a Chief Justice. 

"A Judge should not make orders to please the politicians or people holding high office to be in their good books or on the other hand fearing that your promotional prospect would suffer if you hold a matter referred to you for judgment in a particular way be it a conviction, acquittal discharge or even grant or refusal of bail."
After this decision, the Chief Justice was exonerated but later he tendered his resignation so as to avoid a conflict. Hence this impeachment also failed. The next impeachment motion was directed against former Chief Justice Sarath N. Silva. That too was defeated when the President in the exercise of her prerogative powers vested in her under the constitution prorogued the Parliament. 
The next was against Chief Justice Shirani Bandaranaike. Interpreting the provisions of the constitution governing the impeachment of the apex court Judges a bench of three judges led by Late Justice Gamini Amaratunga including former Chief Justice Priyasath Dep held that the inquiry into the allegation cannot be heard by the select committee, unless and until the Parliament provided for the procedure by passing a law as to the mode of proof of the allegations. 
Based on this interpretation the Court of Appeal issued a writ of certiorari quashing the proceedings of the select committee. However, the impeachment motion was passed in Parliament. As no specific follow up action had been taken thereafter to lawfully dismiss the CJ from the post, the impeachment was deemed not to have been passed and the Chief Justice was reinstated. 
Consequently, you will find all three impeachment motions and the attempt to remove all the Supreme Court Judges under the 1978 Constitution have failed. These are clear historic events that demonstrate the independence of the judiciary. 
I need to mention certain other developments of CJ Bandaranayakas impeachment motion. In that case after the supreme court interpretation and CA ruling were entered, an appeal was preferred to the supreme court by the Attorney General and another bench of the Supreme Court later held that the writ of certiorari issued on the select committee was bad in law and the interpretation given by the Supreme Court also is erroneous. Therefore the present position remains that a select committee appointed under the standing orders of the Parliament can go into the allegations levelled against a Judge of the Apex court. 
In order to preserve the independence of the Judges, it is hoped by the right thinking members of the legal fraternity that it would be desirable to deviate from the Supreme Court judgment on this interpretation, either by an amendment to the Constitution or by the Supreme Court deciding on the matter on the same issue in a different way with a greater number of Judges subscribing to a different opinion consistent with the principles of justice and fair play. 

The 19A took one step further to re-assure and to re-affirm more effectively the degree of independence of the Judges of the courts of the first instance by making provisions for the appointment of the members to the JSC by the President with the approval of the restructured constitutional council. Quite remarkably, the 19A guarantees the independence in a more effective manner by further introducing a provision under article 111D to appoint at least one member of the JSC with experience as a Judge of a Court of First Instance into the JSC. Never in the history before, was it laid down that a Judge of the supreme court having the exposure as a Judge of the court of first instance should necessarily be a member of the JSC.

Although we were late in introducing such a provision, it gives the satisfaction that at least the Constitution has now recognized that the affairs of the original court Judges should be monitored with the assistance of a Judge who has once adorned the bench in an original Court, presumably due to its peculiar nature of intricacies. This is a very salutary move and it is my humble point of view that at least two career Judges should be on the Judicial Service Commission as the decisions of the commission are taken on the basis of simple majority unless they are unanimous. 
There is no gainsaying that the Judges could contribute in a great way to achieve judicial independence. I am quite confident that if the Judicial independence is fully achieved the establishment of rule of law in an effective manner in this country is going to be effortless. The concept of judicial independence takes us through to the thought that the judiciary should be independent of the other branches of the Government. That is, courts should not be subject to improper influence from the other branches of Government or from private parties. If the judiciary is independent, then it can make fair decisions upholding the rule of law, an essential element of any genuine constitutional democracy. Let us focus on the provisions of the constitution to the type of independence conferred on the original Court Judges. 
We all know that the Judicial Service Commission itself enjoys immense guarantee as to its independence. In terms of article 111 L of the constitution a person who otherwise than in the course of such persons lawful duty directly or indirectly influences or attempts to influence the decision of the commission shall be guilty of an offence. The framers of the constitution did not stop at that. The Legislature in its own wisdom and enthusiasm has taken many further measures to provide more independence to the Judges of the original court, so as to make them fearlessly independent from being interfered with either by the Government or private individuals. 
One such measure taken forward by the Legislature is to grant absolute freedom to decide cases. The type of independence you enjoy is such; even the JSC adheres to the non-interference principle in your day to day judicial function. 
As matter of fact, the JSC exercises powers only in relation to your appointment, transfers, promotions and more importantly in the area of disciplinary control. This being the degree of respect given to you, it is incumbent on you not to compromise your independence in exchange for any consideration, be it money, gift, kindness, sympathy, hatred, anger, malice, jealousy, religion, race, sex, age or any other consideration. It does not mean that once you convict a person you should not take the mitigatory circumstances into consideration but to find a persons liability you must not take irrelevant matters into consideration. 
It is said that love is blind. please keep in mind that it is not only love but Justice is also blind. This expression means that justice is impartial and objective. You know there is an allusion to the Greek statue for justice, wearing a blindfold so as not to treat friends differently from strangers, or rich people better than the poor. A Judge should not make orders to please the politicians or people holding high office to be in their good books or on the other hand fearing that your promotional prospect would suffer if you held a matter referred to you for judgment in a particular way be it a conviction, acquittal discharge or even grant or refusal of bail. 
The judicial ethics demand you to be on silent mode unless for a pressing need you want to put it on vibration for a short time certainly not on sound mode. So please remember the Judge on the bench is always on silent mode but the rare exception is to be on vibration. This is because the Judges are paid to listen and the lawyers are to talk. 
It is said that an over-speaking Judge is no well-tuned cymbal. Cymbal you know is a musical instrument. In civil cases, the role of the Judge is said to be that of an umpire. He does not play the game but watches the same and gives rulings. In order to win over the public confidence, a Judge should exceptionally display judicial temperament. 
A Judge who says he loses his temper on the bench is not fit to be a Judge in the strict sense of the discipline and such a Judge is incapable of promoting a sense of judicial independence and the rule of law. Those who cannot demonstrate patience, open-mindedness, courtesy, tact, and courage should not be considered for elevation or extension. 
Promotional prospects of Judges should not only be confined to seniority or the number of judgments an officer writes. If a Judge sleeps on the bench as a matter of practice or is generally rude to the lawyers and the general public on the bench or prevents the lawyers from citing authorities saying that he or she knows the authority or habitually attempts to influence his colleagues in his judicial decisions or tries to throw his weight about or discriminately treats the equals to achieve an ulterior motive, if detected at the beginning, should be effectively prevented from climbing the ladder, be it to the High Court, the Court of Appeal, or the Supreme Court.
If you keep granting promotions irrespective of these shortcomings then you will have one day a set of Judges in the Apex courts committing the same mistake. What is the guarantee that such a Judge who is used to constantly fall asleep on the bench in the Magistrates court, will not fall asleep in a Higher Forum If promotional prospects are considered inter alia for good conduct, then the Judges will find that they are sufficiently rewarded for the good qualities they develop on the bench. 
Well, these are only a few thoughts I thought I share with you. It is up to the JSA and secretary to JSC to give their valuable thought if they find any merit in the suggestion. Article 116 of the constitution which is renumbered as 111 C deals with the prohibition against the interference with the Judiciary. The offence of interfering with the Judiciary carries a sentence of imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to a period of one year or with fine or with both and in addition the offender may be disqualified for a period not exceeding seven years from such conviction from exercising certain civic rights including holding a public office. Therefore, any interference with the course of justice should be promptly discouraged by every one of us, irrespective of the quarter from which the interference proceeds.
I am quite aware of your strict observance of Article 111 C of the Constitution. No Judge in this Country has ever attempted to influence his brother Judge except a negligible number of one or two selfish Judges. However, it is our duty to keep the public informed of this provision so that they will know to what extent we honour independence and shun interference. 
How can we do this If any member of the public expects you to do this please dont just refuse, instead show them the constitutional provision and ask him whether he wants to lose his right of franchise for seven years. I strongly feel that the Secretary to the Ministry of Justice or Secretary to the JSC can arrange sufficient number of the reprint of the Article 111 C from the government press and exhibit this on the notice board of every court so that the people would know what a grave offence it is to interfere with the Judges decision otherwise than it is permitted in law.
At this point, I need to emphasize on one other matter of importance. Since the concept relating to the independence of the judiciary has a direct impact on the image of the Judge and the judiciary at large in the minds of the general public we are under a duty to avoid even the appearance of suspicion that the judicial officer has interfered with the performance of the judicial powers. Justice is the unfailing disposition to give everyone his legal due. To do this we have to expound and interpret the law and, it must be so done honestly, fairly, patiently, attentively and impartially without fear or favour. 
These are essential prerequisites for the people to continue to repose their trust and confidence in us when we exercise their sovereign judicial power in terms of Article 4 of the Constitution. When talking about the independence of the judiciary, one should necessarily run through the preamble to our constitution. The preamble amongst other matters reads that the people of Sri Lanka while assuring the Independence of the judiciary has enacted the present constitution as our principal law. As such, to achieve the several objectives and the goals of our constitution, first and foremost, we as the members of the Judiciary are bound to demonstrate our independence in all our matters be it official or unofficial.

Thereafter, the Legislature and the executive have to follow suit in a concerted effort to establish the true independence of the judiciary. From ancient time, Judges were considered as not being even second to religious dignitaries and the courthouses which they preside as not being inferior to a place of worship. For this very reason, we the Judges should make every possible endeavour to demonstrate the courts are as sacred as our temples. 
To achieve this Judges should work hard with dedication and in a team spirit. The slightest impropriety committed by one single Judge reflects adversely on the entire judiciary. If the most junior Judge commits an act which is unbecoming of the office he holds, the reflection of it would tarnish the good image of the entire judiciary, namely from the Chief Justice downwards and vice versa. The independence of the judiciary, we need to keep in mind, does not mean that we are given the power or license to do whatever we like undermining the law and the widely accepted judicial ethics. 

"Establishing or restoring the rule of law in any country would undoubtedly command the public confidence and therefore it is the paramount duty not only of the Judiciary but the Executive and the Legislature as well to promote the rule of law"
The misuse of the independence and the abuse of the privilege of the office of a Judge would always lead to the erosion of the public confidence. Quite importantly, a fearless and independent judiciary always result in the strict establishment of the rule of law. There can be no controversy over the power of a court or tribunal to maintain its own authority and dignity. Any challenge offered from outside against the dignity of the court is contempt offered to that court. 
It is for the sake of the administration of justice and in order to maintain the authority and decency of judicial proceedings, that this extensive and summary power is conferred on Judges. However, the summary power to deal with the person committing contempt should be used only when the circumstances demand such a draconian step. Therefore, the negligible acts like mobile phones going off or chewing betel etc. should not be looked at as serious incidents of contempt. What is important here is to look at the act complained of being contempt with a touch of sympathy, unless the gravity of the act is such which calls for deterrent punishment. You need to distinguish between an act of contempt which is intentional and accidental. In other words, as was observed by Lord Dennings this power must be sparingly exercised. 
The most heinous crime ever committed on our land challenging the authority of the judiciary is the murder of Sarath Ambepitya, the High Court Judge of Colombo in the year 2004.A straightforward Judge of our time Ambeypitya, who maintained the dignity and decorum of the court to its very letter, was shot dead by assassins hired by an accused who had several murder cases before him. 
The motive behind the shooting was to get rid of him, as he had indicated to the parties in an open court of the nature of an incidental order he was going to make the following day against the accused in a murder case. Our judicial system is founded upon a number of interrelated principles. 
The first of these principles is the rule of law, which is needed in order to restrict arbitrary government power. The rule of law is put into effect through a constitutional system by which power is separated and balanced among three branches of government. Under the separation of powers, the judiciary functions as an independent branch of the government so that it may enforce the rule of law. 
An independent judiciary can properly enforce the rule of law only if it is learned in the law and is characterized by impartiality and integrity. The doctrine of separation of powers identifies the judiciary as a separate branch of government that is coequal to the legislative and executive branches of government. It is the doctrine of separation of powers that underlies the need for an independent judiciary that acts as a counterweight to the Legislature and executive. 
Accordingly, there is a delicate balance between the three branches of government. To maintain this balance, the judiciary has been granted the power of judicial review. This means that the courts have the authority to review the acts of the other branches of government to determine whether they meet the constitutional standards. 
If in the opinion of the courts, an act of the Legislature or executive is contrary to the Constitution, the courts have the authority to nullify that act. Thus, the judiciary stands as the final arbiter of the Constitution and has the responsibility to review legislative and executive action to determine its constitutionality, and hence its validity. Judicial review is the most significant function performed by the judiciary and operates as an integral wheel in the system of checks and balances created by the Constitution. 
It cannot be easily forgotten that the Judges of the original court particularly the Magistrates and the District Judges are the back born of any judiciary. Without exaggeration the Judges of the original court can be identified as the pillars of our entire system of justice, and therefore the public has a right to demand virtually irreproachable conduct from anyone performing the judicial function in an original court. In actual truth, the Judges of the original court are more independent than the higher judiciary. 

"The appointment of a carrier Judge as the Chief Justice after a lapse of three decades has brought fame and global recognition to the Sri Lankan Government"

They are equally knowledgeable in the law and willing to undertake in-depth legal research, and able to write decisions that are clear and cogent. Judges should be fair and open-minded and should appear to be fair and open-minded. They should be good listeners but should be able, when required, to ask questions that get to the heart of the issue before the court. They should be courteous in the courtroom but firm when it is necessary to rein in a rambling lawyer, a disrespectful litigant or an unruly spectator. 
Judges who have served in a lower court are sometimes promoted to a higher court, such as a High Court, Court of Appeal and Supreme Court. As far as the elevations to the Higher Courts are concerned appointments to those Courts from and among the most senior sitting Judges had never given rise to any controversies.
In other words, the elevation from and among the sitting Judges had proved to be quite safe. The sitting Judges have proved themselves that they are worthy of being elevated, and both the bar and the public at large had expressed full satisfaction over such appointments. The Judicial independence is now turning to be better than ever before. 
The appointment of a carrier Judge as the Chief Justice after a lapse of three decades has brought fame and global recognition to the Sri Lankan Government. Let me congratulate the JSA for its achievement for being blessed with the fortune to have one of its former members to adorn the Supreme Court as the chief justice. Long live the JSA, long live the Judiciary.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Latham double ton burries SL
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 17 December 2018 09:07 am
Latham double ton burries SL
	
New Zealand's batsman Tom Latham celebrates reaching 200 runs during day three of the first Test cricket match between New Zealand and Sri Lanka at the Basin Reserve in Wellington. Pix by AFP
 
		
==============================
## Title: Media under tight scrutiny: MR
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 17 December 2018 07:37 am
Media under tight scrutiny: MR
	
Resigned Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa yesterday said that Ministers of the new regime had individually undertaken to monitor the affairs of each and every media institution in a bid to suppress media but the media had a responsibility to act without allowing the country being divided.
Addressing a meeting held at his Carlton Residence in Tangalle, former Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa said:
Each Minister is appointed to each newspaper for media control according to the information published recently. That is at the time of presenting 20th Amendment, he said.
That is their final decision. The media and we have a responsibility to prevent the country from being divided, he said.
We have acted as Presidents and Prime Ministers. But, this Government has taken loans only for consumption. People were burdened with taxes. Although the price of petrol reduced to 24, the Government took profits but no relief had been given to the people.
All the people know about the Central Bank Bond Scam. Arrangements were being made to sell harbour, Mattala Airport and Highways. Plans have been made to give 35, 000 acres to a foreign army camp, he charged.
On this occasion, many people in the area including former Speaker Chamal Rajapaksa, Matara District Parliamentarians Dallas Alahaperuma, Kanchana Wijesekera, Mahinda Yapa Abeywardena, Hambantota District Parliamentarians Namal Rajapaksa, D. V. Chanaka, Economist Nalaka Godahewa and Provincial Councillors and PS members were present.
He said that whichever the political party they belonged to, they tried to do their best when the President requested them to do so.
But, a Stay Order was given by the Supreme Court. Then, they had stepped down thinking about the situation of the country.
He said that however, he believed that the people were with them.
He also wished the new Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe.
He said that it was not by a conspiracy that they came to power.
Rajapaksas do not come through the back door to power, he said.
He also promised to build a country where people were not burdened with taxes.(Aneesha Manage)
 
		
==============================
## Title: New Cabinet should be confined to 30 members - UNP
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 17 December 2018 08:50 am
New Cabinet should be confined to 30 members - UNP
	
Most of the UNPers had insisted that the new Cabinet should be confined to 30 Ministers, UNP MP Eran Wickrmaratne said yesterday.
Mr Wickramaratne told journalists that many UNPers had insisted that new Cabinet should be confined only to 30 members to be in line with the wish of the people, that corruption and wastage of the Government should be stopped.
Referring to a document that is being circulated in social media claiming it to be a list of Cabinet Members, Mr Wickramaratne said many had prepared lists claiming them to be the new Cabinet.
A new Cabinet would be appointed within the next 48 hours, he said yesterday.
Asked whether any SLFPers would be accommodated in the Cabinet, he said discussions were under way with some SLFPers but UNP had insisted that those who participated in the Constitutional coup should not be given Ministerial portfolios.
He said that talks were underway to bring in a Vote on Account (VoA) in a few days time so that economic stability would be restored.
Referring to a question as to how President Maithripala Sirisena appointed UNP Leader Ranil Wickremesinghe as the Prime Minister after stating that he would not appoint Mr Wickremesinghe even if all 225 members of Parliament told him to do so, the UNP MP said President Sirisena had later decided to abide with the countrys Constitution.
Mr Wickramaratne, who responded to a question as to whether it had been computed that country had lost Rs. 22 billion as a result of the political uncertainty, he said that losses were incurred as a result of the interest rate hike.(Yohan Perera).
 
		
==============================
## Title: PM to register a new Alliance
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 17 December 2018 06:09 pm
PM to register a new Alliance
	
Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe today said that he will register a new Alliance named National Democratic Front (NDF).
He said during the protest rally organized by the United National Front (UNF) at the Galle Face Green.
He also said that the new Alliance would be brought into a discussion after putting it to the working committee on this Friday (21).

Video by Indika Sri Aravinda

Video by Susantha

 
		
==============================
## Title: Prez can appoint only 28 ministers: Gammanpila
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 17 December 2018 04:44 pm
Prez can appoint only 28 ministers: Gammanpila
	
The President could appoint only 28 Cabinet Ministers, Pivithuru Hela Urumaya (PHU) Leader MP Udaya Gammanpila said today.
Addressing a news briefing, he said the maximum number of Ministers including the President and the Prime Minister was thirty in terms of Article 46(1) of the Constitution.
The United National Party (UNP) is now in a dilemma as to whom they should give portfolios. Several seniors were promised with Cabinet Portfolios to avoid crossovers. Several State and Deputy Ministers expect Cabinet portfolios considering their contribution during the crisis, MP Gammanpila said.
Meanwhile, he said there was a rumor that the UNP was in an attempt to form a National Government with the solitary member of the SLMC, namely, Ali Zaheer Maulana.
In terms of Article 46(5), the political party with the highest number of parliamentarians should join with other political parties to form a national government. It is not a party but parties. Hence, there must be at least three parties to form a national government. Just the UNP and the SLMC cannot do that, he said. (Sheain Fernandopulle)

 
		
==============================
## Title: Prez urged us to sit in the opposition: MP Dayasiri Jayasekara
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 17 December 2018 10:49 pm
Prez urged us to sit in the opposition: MP Dayasiri Jayasekara
	
Former SLFP Minister Dayasiri Jayasekara today said the President had requested the 21 SLFP Parliamentarians to sit in the opposition bench when they attend the parliament session.
He said the President had made this request from all SLFP MPs during a meeting with the President last evening.
Meanwhile, Parliamentarian Nishantha Muthuhettigama said that they had decided to carry out the task of opposition MPs in Parliament without accepting any Ministerial posts.
"MPs have decided to not to extend their support to the present UNF Government, he said.
Speaking to the Daily Mirror MP Chandima Weerakkody said none of the SLFP MPs would join the UNF government whose prime aim is to destroy the country.
He said none of the MPs except MPs Piyasena Gamage, A. H. M. Fowzie and Manusha Nanayakkara would join the UNF.
No one would join the UNF government following the remarks made by the President during his address to the SLFP MPs, MP Weerakkody said. (Chaturanga Samarawickrama)
 
		
==============================
## Title: SC ruling:  Expert observations on the way forward
## Section: News Features
## Date: 17 December 2018 12:01 am
SC ruling:  Expert observations on the way forward
	


With the Supreme Court judgment ruling out the Presidents move to dissolve Parliament describing it as unconstitutional and violating Fundamental Rights of petitioners, the existing constitutional coup seems to be drawing to an end. While people applaud the independence of the Judiciary, they are also watching how the country will function from now onwards. In fact, how the country will recover and restore itself back on track. For that to happen, elected representatives will now have to act wisely. As Ranil Wickremesinghe was once again sworn in as the fifth Prime Minister yesterday, people are now watching how the green party will play their cards. With that in mind, the Daily Mirror spoke to a few individuals in varied fields of expertise to find out their observations on the recent SC ruling.

Need new Constitution abolishing PC system :
Tirantha Walaliyadde
If the President can dissolve Parliament at his whims and fancies, then, we are running dangerously close to a dictatorship, said Presidents CounselTirantha Walaliyadde. 
The President had no provision to remove Mr Ranil Wickremesinghe from the post of Prime Minister in the manner he did. The Prime Minister can be removed only by a vote of No Confidence or vacation of the post by retirement or b y ceasing to be a Member of Parliament. As the purported removal was unconstitutional, Mr Wickremesinghe never ceased to hold the post of Prime Minister. As such, Mr Wickremesinghe does not resume office but continues in it.
When asked whether the Constitution requires any amendments, Walaliyadde pointed out that among other matters, the Constitution needed to provide sanctions against crossovers by MPs. 
Under the present Constitution, the voter must first vote for the party and then for the preferred candidate from that party. If once elected by public vote the elected member can change parties it amounts to a violation ofthe franchise. The devolution of power to the Provinces must be curtailed or the Provincial Councils should be abolished. If not, the emergence of a Federal State is imminent. The North and the East are even now close to de facto Federal Sates. Under the present Provincial Councils system, if the North and the East are merged as rumoured, in some political circles, Eelam is handed over on a platter to the Eelamists and the 30-year war was just a waste of lives. Sri Lanka also requires a new Constitution abolishing the Provincial Councils system as well as the preferential vote system and the infamous provisions accommodating National List interlopers- for starters.

"The devolution of power to the Provinces must be curtailed or the Provincial Councils should be abolished. If not, the emergence of a Federal State is imminent"
With the Supreme Court ruling that the Presidents move was unconstitutional, he has in fact set a bad precedent on the rest of the citizens in the country.
The Constitution is the conscience of the people, Walaliyadde said. Respect for the Constitution should begin with the Parliament which is said to represent the people. If the Parliamentarians who were elected by virtue of the Constitution have no regard for it once elected, then can one expect the people to respect it The people, in general, are fed up of the party system of Government. What Sri Lanka requires is the establishment of a Sinhala State with all minority races accepting it. It is only then that these racial conflicts will come to an end and harmony and coexistence will prevail. The Sinhala comprise about 75% of the population according to the last released census. The Tamils 15% and the others comprise the rest.


We need to restore the confidence of investors:
Sirimal Abeyratne
Adding in his comments on the topic, Sirimal Abeyratne, Professor of Economics at the University of Colombo said that one good thing about the Supreme Court judgment was that it proved to the rest of the world that we as a nation, treasure the independence of the Judiciary. 

"It would be better if the political leaders also follow these decisions and act accordingly. The political disruption has affected many aspects in different ways. Although the matter could be solved in a matter of days, its long-term impacts are greater. On the long term, we need to restore the confidence of investors."
It would be better if the political leaders also follow these decisions and act accordingly. The political disruption has affected many aspects in different ways. Although the matter could be solved in a matter of days, its long-term impacts are greater. On the long term, we need to restore the confidence of investors. Policies need to be consistent in order to get investors to pool in their money. These depend on the political developments in
the future.
Prof. Abeyratne also stressed the fact that there should be a budget in place and that it was not a good idea to run a country without a budget.

UNP is stronger as a party now:
Terrance Purasinghe
"The Government that will be established now is not a national Government. For that to happen, the SLFP has to extend its support. But with the TNA backing they are in a position to form a Government."
In his observations, Terrance Purasinghe, senior lecturer in political science at the University of Sri Jayewardenepura said that the country had a national Government before October 26.
The Government that will be established now is not a national Government. For that to happen, the SLFP has to extend its support. But with the Tamil National Alliance (TNA) now backing the green party they are now in a position to form a Government. The UNP had an internal crisis but it has subsided now and they are stronger as a party and the leadership is also strong.

The coup would have succeeded if not for judicial independence:
Gehan Gunatilleke
The Supreme Courts recent ruling - that the Presidents action to dissolve Parliament violated the Fundamental Rights of the people - is a watershed event in Sri Lankas Constitutional history, said Gehan Gunatilleke, lawyer and an academic specializing in international human rights and public law. 
This unanimous ruling demonstrates two things. First, it demonstrates how important it is to guarantee the separation of powers in the governance structure of a country. In Sri Lanka, the Judiciary plays a vital role in protecting the rights of the people in instances where the executive acts outside the provisions of the Constitution. There is no doubt whatsoever that the President contravened the Constitution when he sought to unilaterally dissolve Parliament prior to the lapse of four and a half years since the first meeting of Parliament. 

"It demonstrates how important it is to guarantee the separation of powers in the governance structure of a country. In Sri Lanka, the Judiciary plays a vital role in protecting the rights of the people..."
Without these checks and balances in place - without a Judiciary willing to perform its Constitutional Duty to check the abuse of Executive Power - the power grab launched on 26 October would have succeeded. 
Second, this ruling demonstrates that Sri Lankas institutional culture has evolved during the past three and a half years. This shift is subtle and cannot yet be called a genuine transformation. But, in contrast to previous Governments, the Yahapalanaya Government either deliberately or inadvertently did not seek to concentrate power in the Executive. This is the legacy of the Nineteenth Amendment. 
It has enabled institutions such as the Judiciary to discover its independence over time. The coup would have succeeded had it not been for this vital discovery of judicial independence.

President should apologize to the public:
Wasantha Samarasinghe
The perpetrators who supported the Constitutional Coup should be punished, said Wasantha Samarasinghe, JVP member of Parliament and convenor of the Voice against Corruption movement. The Supreme Court in its ruling said that the Presidents move to dissolve Parliament was unconstitutional. Therefore, the President should apologize to the public for all the chaos that happened over the past 50 days. We request for a commission to be appointed to investigate on the perpetrators attached to the coup. The JVP is also of the stance that the 20A should be presented in Parliament in order to abolish the Executive Presidency. People should be given the chance to vote at a general election and elect a fresh cabinet. Democracy cannot be restored just because Ranil Wickremesinghe was once again sworn in as the Prime Minister.

"Neither Ranil nor his supporters have been protectors of democracy. We are now observing how the UNP will react to what the President has said..."
Samarasinghe said that it was important to protect democracy. Neither Ranil nor his supporters have been protectors of democracy. We are now observing how the UNP will react to what the President has said and done over the past few days. Ideally, they should initiate an impeachment motion against the President. We cant keep quiet while they sign more deals and drag the country to the gutters. So we request the public to be alert and join us in restoring democracy in the country.

 
		
==============================
## Title: Six PCs not to support new Govt.: Isura
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 17 December 2018 10:48 am
Six PCs not to support new Govt.: Isura
	
Chief Ministers of six provincial Councils had decided not to support the new government headed by Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe, Western Province Chief Minister Isura Devapriya said yesterday.
He told a news conference that the decision was taken at a meeting held in his residence in Colombo attended by Chief Ministers of Western, North Central, Central, Southern, North Western and Uva Provincial Councils. (Indika Sri Aravinda)
VIdeo byIndika Sri Aravinda
 
		
==============================
## Title: Turbulent Politics
## Section: Opinion
## Date: 17 December 2018 12:02 am
Turbulent Politics
	

ver the last week, in Sri Lanka as in the United Kingdom, the United States and India, there is much talk of major court rulings, confidence motions, elections, referendum and impeachment. Such intense politics has led to further escalation of political moves and manoeuvres by those in power, but what are the plans of the left and progressive forces 
Trump and Brexit
British journalist Gary Younge has written an interesting article in the progressive US magazine The Nation titled, Which Is Worse, Trump or Brexit (www.thenation.com/article/trump-brexit-gary-younge/) Younge begins the article with a question usually posed to him about racism in the UK and the US, and says its not morally possible to weigh up whose racism is better. He claims that the last two years of heightened politics after the referendum on Brexit in the UK and the election of Trump in the US, have been around identity, immigration, sovereignty, patriotism and nostalgia, and worse about misogyny and xenophobia. 
Younge goes on to argue that the left in opposing Brexit and Trump cannot merely call for a return to the status quo of few years back, as it is the economic and political problems in the past that allowed for the rise of such right wing politics. In other words, merely returning to the EU and the US under their neoliberal stewardship are not going to address the concerns of the British and American people. Rather, the need of the hour is to start from this crisis and chart a different path. 
Unravelling politics
Many of the authoritarian, populist and nationalist regimes that have determined global politics in recent years are currently facing trouble. Trump faces many legal challenges with many of his top aides indicted or under scrutiny, and the prospect of impeachment hangs over US presidency. Similarly, May leads a fragile government on the brink of collapse, and is unsure of the consequences of an agreement with the EU on Brexit with even the possibility of a second referendum to reverse Brexit. Closer to home in India, Modi and his BJP have been hammered in the recent state elections, and his future as Prime Minister is at risk with the upcoming national elections in mid-2019. 
Here in Sri Lanka, similar changes are in motion. President Sirisenas manoeuvre and MahindaRajapaksas crooked entry as Prime Minister have failed. But is it merely a question of returning a Ranil Wickremesinghe government with little change in their policy direction Was it not the four year-long failures of the Sirisena-Wickremesinghe government that strengthened the MR camp as evident from the local government elections in February this year. What would a new Wickremesinghe government do different 
There is a common strand between the US, UK, India and Sri Lanka, and for that matter many other countries prior to the rise of authoritarian, populist and conservative regimes. That is the tremendous dispossession with neoliberalism over the decades and the failures of successive governments in these countries to address the economic and social aspirations of their populations. Even with the escalating global economic crisis after 2008, the concerns of the rural, working and marginalised peoples have been forgotten allowing for right wing regimes to mount an offensive. 
Changing the terrain
Many of the challenges to the right wing regimes have been through legal, parliamentary and electoral means. In other words, they have been moves that have relied on questioning their political legitimacy. But from history, we have seen that such right wing regimes when challenged have proven capable over time of mobilising their social bases and class forces against procedural aspects of democratic legitimacy. These social bases combined with class power, whether it is the Christian right and the Wall Street bankers, the anti-immigrant forces and the British neoliberals, or the Hindutva rump and the Indian conglomerates, have a history of shifting politics through financial power, mass mobilisations and even violence on the streets. When such attacks are unleashed the liberal democrats cow down. 
In Sri Lanka, it has to begin by reversing the disastrous turn with the JR regime in 1978, which saw the amassing of state power under the executive presidency and the launch of neoliberal economic policies. 
The impact of that historic shift on the trade union movement are captured in a statement on December 7, 2018 titled, Abolish the Executive Presidency Now! signed by T.M.R. Rasseedin, Deputy General Secretary, for the Ceylon Federation of Labour:
The working class has always realized the dangers of the Executive Presidency having experienced first-hand how it could be used to undermine attempts by the working class to protect its rights and achieve better living standards for itself. The Executive Presidency which was used to suppress trade union protests through strong-arm tactics resulted in the death of Comrade Somapala. The July 1980 Strike saw the overnight firing of over 40,000 workers, Trade Union offices being sealed and bank accounts of unions on strike made inoperative. Workers were not paid the salaries due to them for the month they had already worked.
The Government successfully broke the back of the strikers and gave the trade union movement in the country a lasting blow from which it has still not fully recovered. The private sector employers took advantage of the situation to get rid of all those who joined the July 1980 Strike.The full force of the Executive Presidency had been used throughout its existence to fight the legitimate demands of the working class. The powers were used to suppress the trade union struggle against the introduction of a spurious pension Bill in 2011 that resulted in the death of a young worker.
The agitation of the people of Rathupasswala for clean water was put down with brute force resulting in the deaths of three protestors. The leader of the fisherfolk campaign for the restoration of the fuel subsidy that was withdrawn was gunned down. The Presidential system allowed monkeying with the judiciary to undermine trade union struggles as was seen during the port strike, trade union actions of teachers, railway employees, health sector workers, etc. 
If we are to think and plan even broader  to address the undemocratic attacks on the minorities, the dispossession of the rural people and the rising inequality in the country  the year ahead with elections requires shifting the debate towards abolishing the Executive Presidency and reversing the onslaught of neoliberal policies including those of financialisation, free trade and privatisation. Economic power and political decision making should be brought closer to the people through strengthening the social welfare system and greater powers to the provincial and local governments.
But the struggle for such a progressive programme will be met with the divisive politics of ethnic polarisation and nationalist mobilisations as well as dismembering the rural, estate and working class constituencies through political patronage. Therefore, any serious effort at such a progressive programme from the outset has to focus on rebuilding inter-ethnic relations in parallel with solidarity among the marginalised classes. 
 
		
==============================
## Title: US, Australia welcome political developments in SL
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 17 December 2018 04:43 pm
US, Australia welcome political developments in SL
	
The United States and Australia have welcomed political developments in Sri Lanka.
US Ambassador to Sri Lanka Alaina B. Teplitz welcomed this weekends political developments, which upheld Sri Lankas democratic and constitutional norms.
Sri Lanka is a valued partner in the Indo-Pacific and we look forward to continuing to develop our relationship with the government and people of this country, She tweeted.
Meanwhile, Australian High Commission in Colombo said as a longstanding friend and Indian Ocean neighbour, Australia welcomed resolution of the political uncertainty in Sri Lanka by constitutional means.
It said in a statement that as a longstanding friend and Indian Ocean neighbour, Australia welcomed resolution of the political uncertainty in Sri Lanka by constitutional means and the demonstrated resilience of Sri Lanka's democratic institutions.
We look forward to working with the Sri Lankan Government to take forward its commitments to deliver peace, reconciliation and prosperity, and to build a stronger bilateral relationship, the statement added.
 
		
==============================
## Title: VoA next in agenda: Gayantha
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 17 December 2018 08:47 pm
VoA next in agenda: Gayantha
	
The cabinet of the UNF government would be sworn in, in the next couple of days and State and Deputy Ministers next week, former Minister and Cabinet Spokesman Gayantha Karunathilaka said today.
He said discussions were underway within the party seniors on how cabinet portfolios were allocated led by Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe, as there were dissenting views among party members on key portfolios like Finance and Planning.
The Government would try its best to give UNF Ministers the same portfolios they held in the Yahapalana Government to minimize dissatisfaction among them.
Our main concern is to pass a Vote on Account (VOA) soon after the swearing in of the new cabinet. I hope we would be able to pass a VoA in Parliament next week to cover the expenses of the first two or three months of 2019, he said.
The budget 2019 will be presented before the Sinhala  Hindu New Year in April, Mr Karunatilaka said.
He added that former Finance Minister Mangala Samaraweera had almost completed the budget 2019 when the Government was changed suddenly on October 26 after the removal of Prime Minister Wickremesinghe.
Commenting on the discussions with members of the UPFA, SLFP and SLPP, Mr Karunathilaka said whoever decided to support the Government he or she must get the UNF membership before obtaining a ministerial position.
There is a huge opposition within the UNF towards certain members of the UPFA and as such, they would not be accepted to the UNF under any circumstances, he said.
Some UNF members have also urged the party leadership not to give key portfolios to certain UNF members as well, he said.
More than a dozen MPs have consented to extend their support to the UNF. I can assure them that only their political future will not be in danger if they consented to support the UNF Government because we have determined to record an absolute victory at the Presidential and Parliamentary polls next year.
We will begin our election campaigns for the forthcoming Provincial Councils, Presidential and Parliamentary Polls from January, he stressed.
Mr Karunathilaka added that the budget 2019 would bring a big package of benefits and relieves to low-income families to bring down the cost of living drastically. (Sandun A Jayasekera)
 
		
==============================