## Title: Another A-380 lands at BIA for refuelling
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 25 December 2017 08:52 pm
Another A-380 lands at BIA for refuelling
	
The world's largest Airbus A-380 Emirates flight flying from Auckland City, New Zealand to Dubai landed at the Bandaranaike International Airport (BIA) in Katunayake at 2.50 this morning for emergency refueling, the BIA duty Manager said.
It left at 4.30 a.m. to Dubai after refuelling 30,000 litres.
He said the pilot of the plane carrying 400 passengers and 30 crew members, informed the Airport officials that the fuel was insufficient for their journey and requested an emergency landing at the BIA for refuelling.
Earlier, another A-380 Emirates flight made an emergency landing at the BIA for refuelling while on its way to Dubai from Sydney, Australia on December 15.
Several A380 airbuses had landed after the new runway was put in place. The Airbus A380 is a double-deck, wide-bodied, four-engine jet airliner with a 500 passenger capacity and manufactured by European Manufacturer Airbus, he said. (T.K.G. Kapila)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Are we ready to celebrate Christmas as a time for Peace and Reconciliation 
## Section: News Features
## Date: 25 December 2017 12:00 am
Are we ready to celebrate Christmas as a time for Peace and Reconciliation 
	
Christmas is universally celebrated as a festival of Peace. In fact, it is the birth anniversary commemoration of Jesus Christ, the Prince of Peace. With the gift of Peace that He alone can give, he had brought to us with his historical birth, the blessings of unity and reconciliation, freedom from all bondage and liberation from all forms of slavery.
Freedom and Joy are blessings that mankind had always been in hunger for and sought in a manner that is ardent and relentless. In fact, one of the most unfortunate things today is that despite our highly advanced scientific achievements and unbelievable technological feats, we keep failing in the all-important task and duty of uniting nations and binding the hearts in close rapport. Long are the journeys we make to the distant planets in rockets of incredible speed, distant are the voyages we undertake across rivers, oceans and continents, and yet incapable are we to live with and love the one next door.
There is much domestic violence which wreaks the joy, peace and concord of the inner and sacred family circle. Divorce, marital infidelities and rebellious youth from within the domestic milieu are bringing untold suffering and pain to this fundamental human and social institution that is so essential to stabilize society.
The Christmas Phenomenon
At Christmas time, we all look forward generally to strengthen the bonds of unity, to enjoy fellowship and diffuse much good-will and generosity. It is a time to exchange gifts, sometimes very costly ones, with others as a mark of friendship and honouring others. It is only people of peace and compassion who have the capacity and good fortune to meaningfully celebrate Christmas and its seasonal joys. The entire world seems to begin this festive season very early in time. In many foreign lands, lights and dcor come up in the streets, shops, shopping malls and public places already by September. Sales are advertised and get-togethers in institutions are planned well ahead to usher in and celebrate Christmas. It is the time when all workers are counting days in expectation of their bonuses.
On the religious sides, there are the exotic renderings of traditional and ancient Christmas carols, rendered immortal by the fuelling they generate and the message they convey. Yet, little is done to mend misunderstandings, heal ill-feelings and wrongs done, stolen goods returned and forgiveness asked and bestowed. These are difficult values in healing the social wounds and stigma that usually stain justice and healthy relations among people in society.
In our own land, where Christianity has thrived for the last 500 years, we are confronted with the challenge and historical task of the moment to work hard at the task of peace and reconciliation. Since independence 70 years ago, this dear motherland of our, the Isle of serendipity had been torn by many a conflict. Unfortunately, these catastrophes have emerged from the hotbed of ethnic, religious and racial tensions that ever since independence had been breeding multiple forms of extremism. These unfortunate phenomena had nothing to do with wholesome and rightly disposed patriotism and authentic nationalism.
On the contrary, these short-sighted ideologies became a real danger to patriotism and for the peace and progress of our dear country, the pearl of the Indies. On the one hand, patriotic movements for liberty and national identity were naturally to emerge from the moment of independence. After being muzzled under the yoke of colonial rule for better or worse for nearly five centuries under various colonial masters, Portuguese, Dutch and the British, there were bound to be such outburst of clamour for sovereignty and liberty among those who took the first ranks in the struggle to establish a free Sri Lanka. But, it was disastrous to see this movement going astray in many ways.
This unfortunate situation was made more complicated with economic problems made worse by our gradual dependence on international monetary agencies such as the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund. We became a much to be pitied and helpless national of beggars with our debt costing every newborn baby Lankan today to up to Rs. 200,000.00. Our dear country is sunk in a miserable debt trap from which it would not be easy to escape for a long time.
In the meanwhile, the assets of the nation have been squandered by unscrupulous elements who found themselves in seats of power and influence. Till justice is meted out to those guilty of gross injustice to the people, peace concord and prosperity would be a distant dream for many, especially for the farmer, the daily labourer, those of the lower middle-class economic group and many in the lower ranks of the government sector. We need not only a grandiose plan for the future, but ad-hoc strategies to find solutions to alleviate the sufferings and insecurity of the common man, the man in the field and in the street.
Peace, Reconciliation & Development
Pope Paul VI had once said that the new word for peace is development, but that of the total man and of all men. This is a gigantic task facing us today. Social justice in matters of economic concerns and minority rights has become a crucial issue to deal with great prudence and tactfulness.
Christ was the Good Samaritan who cared for the Jew and fed the hundreds out in the mountains and forgave even from the cross giving hope even to the abandoned robber. He hated sin and hypocrisy but loved the sinner and the humble, which came to him for consolation and succour.
Are we ready to celebrate Christmas as a time for Peace and Reconciliation
The hundred-year span following the industrial revolution which brought in the machine whilst displacing the worker wreaked chaos in the world of labour. The labour-capital question still haunts us today. Purely profit-laden gross capitalism has failed in as much as the crude forms of socialistic economies. As far as man is not the centre of our efforts and commodity is allowed to be the ultimate measure and base of economies, this perennial question will never be solved and would persist as an agonizing issue at our crossroads. One must not become a victim of economic determinism or imperialism.
We must drink from our own wells and never let them go dry. Extravagance at all levels have to be avoided and the standard of living brought to a manageable level. It is the duty of those in government to care for the weak, the marginalized and the poor. The areas of concern embrace education, health care, employment opportunities and pension benefits. The foreign reserves are to be ensured with the local assets of the country and the skills of its native peoples, the human resources, invested to their full capacity. It must be a win-win process in all sectors and to the degree possible, contentment for all.
Religions bring in to human progress and civilization the spiritual resources of enlightenment and wisdom. It can help guide our choices, options and decision-making. This land is blessed with four of the major world religions that can prove a fountain of wisdom and level-headedness to our people. Religious leadership today has to be involved in political, social and cultural issues, though be distant from party politics. Really, religions come alive only in human activities where basically it is the religious values that are in question and peril: respect for life and human dignity, justice at all levels that lead to sharing and caring of the marginalized with assets put at the service of the entire country.
Conclusion
At Christmas time, we celebrate the birth of Jesus Christ who was the Prince of Peace bringing in the era when enemies can forgive and embrace each other in humility and forgiveness. He battled again sin in all its forms, personal, social and structural. Unless sinful and unjust structures are radically changed no justice, peace or order can take place. St. Augustine, the 4th century African Christian luminary said: Peace is tranquillity of order. It is a target that has to be attained by pain-staking effort and sincere commitment. Leaders both political to whom the nation hands over responsibilities of governance and religious leaders who hold the religious truths have to partner the task of leading the people towards progress and contentment.
Christ was the Good Samaritan who cared for the Jew and fed the hundreds out in the mountains and forgave even from the cross giving hope even to the abandoned robber. He hated sin and hypocrisy but loved the sinner and the humble, which came to him for consolation and succour. Christmas is the time to mend differences, clear misunderstandings, break barriers, cross borders, reach out to new frontiers and find fresher openings to meander the paths of peace and reconciliation, especially in a country where right now, all of us are torn apart by the pain of ethnic tensions, political instability and cultural alienation.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Campaign offices curbed Candidates should use their residence as office
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 25 December 2017 05:50 am
Campaign offices curbed Candidates should use their residence as office
	
The Elections Commission would restrict the establishment of campaign offices by candidates contesting at the Local Government elections this time, an official said yesterday.
The Commission has decided to stipulate a criterion for the operation of campaign offices as the present law governing the local election does not contain a provision for it.
Accordingly, the candidates contesting for electoral wards would be allowed to operate their campaign offices at their residences.
However, he said that the Commission would grant the exception for candidates in instances where they lived outside the wards they contest for.
There are candidates, who contest for one ward but lives in another. They can have an office outside the residence, the official said on condition of anonymity.
Also, for the members of the clergy, contesting the election will be allowed to have their offices in places other than their places of religious ownership.
In case a Buddhist monk is in the fray, he will be allowed to have the office at a place other than his temple. Likewise, there are candidates living in an upstairs apartment. They will also have some redress from the rule, the official said.
The Elections Commission will discuss these proposals with the representatives of the political parties on December 27 and announce it finally.
Besides, candidates can display their propaganda stickers only in vehicles they travel. The Commission has already informed the police to take action against those violating its instructions in this regard. (Kelum Bandara)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Christmas: Facts, fiction and faith
## Section: News Features
## Date: 25 December 2017 12:00 am
Christmas: Facts, fiction and faith
	
1. Birthday of Jesus: a Non-Issue for the first Christians
The celebration of Christs birth on the 24th / 25th December dates back to the Third Century CE. But it is universally acknowledged that the gospels give no clue to arrive at such a date or any other date for that matter. Lukes Gospel mentions that the shepherds were in the fields that night guarding their sheep when the birth of Christ was announced to them. This could never have happened in the winter month of December when the freezing cold would allow neither man nor beast to spend the night in the open air. So Luke does not allow us to fix Christs birth in December!
Besides, the first Christians were not accustomed to celebrating birthdays. Their tradition was to treat the day of ones death as ones true birthday. This meaningful custom continues to this day in the church. The feast of a saint is celebrated normally on the day of that saints death and the Roman Martyrology introduces each saints feast-day (the date of death) dies natalis (birthday) of such and such a saint.
Finally, the highpoint in the festive calendar of the church had always been the Easter and not Christmas. It was at Easter that the Christians celebrated the birth of the Church as the Body of the Risen Jesus.
2. Christmas: a Critical Response to a Challenge
Historical data available to us indicate that the choice of this date as the date of Christs birth was the outcome of early Christianitys critical response to the popular Roman cult of the Sun, a cult which was encouraged by Emperor Elagabalus in the early 3rd century. It was his successor, Emperor Aurelian who dedicated a temple to the Unconquered Sun (Sol Invictus) and fixed December 25th as the Birth Anniversary of the Unconquered Sun (Dies Natalis Solis Invite).
It was not historical facts but a challenge to Christian faith that made the early church adopt this same date as the birth anniversary of Christ. For, Jews and Christians were a colonized religious minority in a dominant and dominating Greco-Roman culture and they had to conserve their faith with great caution and circumspection. For them, the sun was a mere creature and never to be worshipped and their faith would not allow them to participate in that national celebration. As will be indicated below, they already had a tradition that used the metaphor of the sun to describe God, the Creator, who brings Light and Life to all Creation. How could they, in conscience, join other citizens in what they abhorred as idle-worship
Long before the Romans began to venerate the Sun, a Jewish seer had already prophesized the coming of Christ with the words The Sun of Justice will dawn with healing rays (Malachi, 4:2). According to Lukes Gospel Mary, pregnant with Jesus, arrived at her Cousin Elizabeths home and prophesied in song the revolutionary changes her divine Son was going to bring about. In response Zachariah (Elizabeths husband) also burst into song, acknowledging the arrival of Jesus as the rising of the Sun from on high (Lk 1:78). The Sun they welcomed and worshipped as God in Christ. They had no difficulty in honouring that SUN on the 24th/ 25th of December.
3. The Process of Fixing Christmas on 24th/ 25th December
The early Christians quite soon found an ingenious way of fixing 24th/25th December as the birthday of Christ. The clue was found in the Book of James (a second-century work, not to be confused with Letter of the Apostle James); in this book, the 23rd September is mentioned as the Jewish Day of Atonement. It was allegedly on such a day or thereabouts that Zechariah entered the temple to perform his priestly sacrifice as well as received the news of his barren wife Elizabeth miraculously conceiving John the Baptist. The early Christians, therefore, added nine months to 23rd September and fixed the 24th June as the birthday of John the Baptist!
Since he was six months old when Mary conceived Jesus ---according to Angel Gabriels announcement--- Jesus was calculated to have been conceived on 24th / 25th March! This is the day Christians even today celebrate the Annunciation of the Birth of Jesus to Mary, i.e., the day she conceived Jesus. Add nine months to 24th/25thMarch you have December 24th/25th as the birthday of Jesus! Ingenious, indeed!
Hence the celebration of the Birth of Christ on Christmas day was a conventional agreement officially accepted by the early church rather than a historically authenticated date. While the Romans were festively engaged in Solar Worship on the 25th December, the Christians were quietly and prayerfully commemorating the birth of Christ, the Unconquerable Sun that was day by day conquering the hearts of gentile masses in the Roman Empire!
4. Advent, as the Original Name for Christmas
Advent was initially another way of referring to Christmas. It was much later that it assumed the meaning we give it today, namely the period of preparation for Christmas. Originally it was a synonym for Christmas. Here again, we encounter a tacit Christian contestation of what the early church saw as Imperial Romes idolatry.
The Latin word adventus, meaning arrival was originally a technical term for a new emperors official assumption of office. There was a custom, perhaps introduced by Augustus, that the new emperor should officially enter the City of Rome in pomp and circumstance to mark the event of his taking over imperial duties. This official arrival was referred to as the adventure (arrival). But this official entry into the City was not that of a mere human, according to the Romans. For Emperor Augustus had already claimed divinity and consequently his successor Tiberius had imprinted his title on the denarius (Roman silver coin), as Divi Filius (son of god). Hence Constantines official entry into Rome as the new Emperor had been recorded in a medal as adventus divi, the Coming of the Divine One!
Christians treated this divine claim of Roman Emperors with a sense of humour by celebrating Christmas as the real arrival or the advent of the one and only Divine Ruler that they believed in and worshipped. The critical approach they had adopted towards Romes sun-worship was also applied to Romes emperor-cult.
5. Christmas and the Option of Christ
The aforementioned historical precedents have transformed Christmas into an event that confronts us with two contrasting value systems as well as an invitation to make an either-or choice between them. Caesar represents humans who assume divine status after acquiring political power and live on the sweat and blood of the poor masses.
God-King Jesus, by contrast, hides his divinity and joins the destitute class even at his birth to challenge the oppressive system which human rulers have created. No wonder, the very news of his birth became a threat to the local political chief, King Herod, who tried unsuccessfully to eliminate him already during infancy, a tragedy inseparably connected with Christmas. Later, the adult Jesus launching of the divinely willed order of justice (which he called the Reign of God) antagonized both politicians and the priests. Their apparently successful attempt at planning his disappearance was frustrated when they heard the news of his reappearance which consolidated his disciples into a movement, which was destined to be a perpetual challenge to the reign of Herods and the Caesars of all times!Whether the church was faithful to this mission always and everywhere is an uncomfortable and embarrassing question we must never cease to ask ourselves.
Hence our conclusion: Christmas comes as an annual reminder that the advent of Jesus, the King of Righteousness takes place today only where we Christians succeed in evoking his image and his presence by engaging in the non-violent struggle for peace and justice which characterized his earthly mission. The hope of such an advent of Christ, if kindled in our hearts and realized through our deeds, would make the celebration of this holy season a genuinely Christ-ful Christmas.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Commemorating Human Rights Day Lets stand up for Equality, Justice and Human Dignity
## Section: News Features
## Date: 25 December 2017 12:00 am
Commemorating Human Rights Day Lets stand up for Equality, Justice and Human Dignity
	
Celebrating International Human Rights Day 2017, the Human Rights Office in Kandy organized Human Rights Salutation, which was held at the Good Shepherd Convent in Kandy on December 10, 2017 with the theme Lets stand up for Equality, Justice and Human Dignity with the participation of more than 500 persons including religious leaders, victims, human rights defenders, award winners and well-wishers.
 
Prominent human rights activists and the winners of school and Sunday school art and essay competitions were recognised during the programme. Rt. Rev. Dr. Winston Fernando SSS President of the Catholic Bishops Conference of Sri Lanka and Bishop of Badulla was the chief guest while Ven. Dr. Atipola Mangala Thera delivered the keynote address. In the absence of Eran Wickramaratne, the State Minister of Finance, his secretary Asiri Thushara Uralagamage was present to deliver the message sent by him. 
Torture survivor Chamila Bandara was awarded for courage in fighting against torture and other cruel, inhuman, degrading treatment and punishment, and seeking justice to punish the perpetrators during the most repressive regime ...
Fr. Nandana Manatunga, director of the Human Rights Office, introducing the event, said that this years, Human Rights Day will kick off a year-long campaign to mark the upcoming 70th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, a milestone document that proclaimed the inalienable rights which everyone is inherently entitled to as a human being regardless of race, colour, religion, sex, language, political or other opinion, national or social origin, property, birth or other status. Further he said its important to recognize and appreciate the courage of survivors as well as human rights defenders and activists to create a culture of human rights and encouraged school children, victims and activists to defend protect and promote the rights of all citizens. 
Ms. Ermiza Tegal, was awarded for her dedicated and untiring work as a human rights lawyer who sought justice and redress for the victims of torture, victims of the defective justice system and for her commitment in campaigning for the rights of the minorities and protecting the rights of children. Rev. Sr. Nichola Emmanuel was awarded for upholding Christian values, for her commitment and dedicated services for the families of the disappeared and the families of the prisoners, defending, protecting the rights of the poor and the marginalized in the society. 
Ven. Dr. Atipola Mangala Thera and Rt. Rev. Dr. Winston Fernando SSS
Torture survivor Chamila Bandara was awarded for courage in fighting against torture and other cruel, inhuman, degrading treatment and punishment, and seeking justice to punish the perpetrators during the most repressive regime, risking their lives and their families, breaking the silence of the suffering survivors of torture. 
The art and essay competitions initiated a discussion on the most crucial human rights issues among the students, teachers, and parents, religious and within a larger section of civil society. 
Applications were sent to schools, Sunday Schools in the Sinhala & Tamil mediums covering the entire Central Province. A total of 1390 students from 187 schools in the Central Province participated in art and essay competitions, while 976 children from 177 multi religious schools (Sunday Schools) participated. The art and essay competitions initiated a discussion on the most crucial human rights issues among the students, teachers, and parents, religious and within a larger section of civil society.
Ermiza Tegal
 Ven. Dr. Atipola Mangala Thera in his key note address said that Sri Lanka has a history of upholding values even as a kingdom. Kings never arrested anyone if they were in a temple or if they were being treated in a hospital but at present things have changed and everything revolves around the greed for political power. As a nation we have suffered through the disasters in 1971, 1988-91 and during the 30-year-civil-war. We should realize that at the end it is we that suffer without any differentiation, as a monk, I believe we have a responsibility to guide the society without being influenced by politicians and perhaps this may be our last opportunity. 
Congratulating the 2017 award winners, the thera said I do commend your involvement in this field and also remind you that this award is also a responsibility that is bestowed on you to continue the good work that you do and to inspire more people.
We should realize that at the end it is we that suffer without any differentiation, as a monk, I believe we have a responsibility to guide the society without being influenced by politicians and perhaps this may be our last opportunity

The chief guest, Badulla Bishop Julian Winston Sebastian Fernando, addressing gathering said that it is unfortunate to learn that Sri Lanka is listed as the fourth most corrupt country in the world, an absolute disheartening piece of news. He further said that human rights have found its way into each countrys governing system and the UDHR has as a place in their respective constitutions and that has to be admired. As we are preparing to celebrate the birth of Christ, let me remind you that Christ was born for everyone and he stood for equality and justice. 
State Minister Eran Wickramaratne in his message, conveyed how honoured he was by the invitation extended for the Human Rights Salutation committee. He sent his deepest regrets for being unable to attend as he was unexpectedly requested by the President to head the Sri Lankan delegation to the One Planet Summit in Paris. 
The Protocol will allow for the regular inspection of the places of detention and to take necessary action to improve the welfare of the people detained on Judicial Orders...
Sri Lanka acceded to the Optional Protocol to the Convention against Torture and other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment on December 5 2017 and it will enter into force in Sri Lanka on January 4, 2018. Signing of the Optional Protocol under the Convention demonstrates our determination to combat torture and our commitment to co-operate with international mechanisms. The Protocol will allow for the regular inspection of the places of detention and to take necessary action to improve the welfare of the people detained on Judicial Orders. There is much more work to be done and we cannot afford to falter, but I am hopeful about the future. 
The parents of those who had disappeared, families of prisoners, torture and rape survivors and those who participated in various workshops during the year 2017 were also presented with souvenirs to encourage and appreciate their commitment and consistency in their efforts to reactivate the dysfunctional justice system that constantly failed them in the past. 
Ermiza Tegal receiving Human Rights salutation from Rt. Rev. Dr. Winston Fernando SSS. Fr. Nandana Manatunga, Director of the Human Rights Office looks on.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Hail Jesus
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 25 December 2017 10:10 am
Hail Jesus
	
Daily Mirror photographer Nisal Baduge capatures the picture of a crib depicting the life of Jesus and built at St. Mary's Church in Dehiwela.
 
		
==============================
## Title: IMPRESSIONS OF MY RECENT VISIT TO SRI LANKA
## Section: News Features
## Date: 25 December 2017 12:00 am
IMPRESSIONS OF MY RECENT VISIT TO SRI LANKA
	
I am delighted to note that the Asian Development Bank (ADB) has decided to donate USD 98 million to develop the roads in the previously war-torn northern region
The road network in the country is expanding rapidly. It is the prime factor in any country for it to prosper as well achieve its economic targets
The carpeted road from Habarana to Passikudah however was excellent, perhaps in ten years time it may have to be expanded in view of the clusters of tourist hotels coming up in the region
After a lapse of ten years I visited my motherland, Sri Lanka. Amazingly the infrastructure development of the country, which was almost at a standstill when I left, is now progressing steadily.

I journeyed from Colombo to Passikudah via Kandy. The Kandy road was highly congested and I felt it needs expansion without delay. The carpeted road from Habarana to Passikudah however was excellent, perhaps in ten years time it may have to be expanded in view of the clusters of tourist hotels coming up in the region. Perhaps a by-road avoiding old urban areas to Passikudah hotel complex is more appropriate. The A9 starting from Kandy also needs expansion.
The road network in the country is expanding rapidly. It is the prime factor in any country for it to prosper as well achieve its economic targets. I am delighted to note that the Asian Development Bank (ADB) has decided to donate USD 98 million to develop the roads in the previously war-torn northern region. The minister in charge of State Administration, has proposed to have a cable car service to Sri Paada. This I proposed in my publication, Pre-historic Lanka to end of Terrorism, dedicated to the President with elaborations of experience I had gained after making two trips via cable cars to the Alps, during the time I was in West Germany training to be a journalist. 
During my stay in Sri Lanka we stayed at hotels in Kandy, Habarana and the jungle region at Passikudah. In Batticaloa we stayed in close proximity to the sea beach set amidst dry cadjans and sea sand. It was indeed a pleasant experience. 
We were delighted to learn that the Government now pays more attention to rural development at the grass-roots level and hitherto had selected 14,000 villages for this purpose. The way of life of village -folks will be dramatically changed into a modern lifestyle as a result. 
I travelled along a number of by-roads in Colombo and suburbs where the narrow roads are terribly congested due to colossal amount of vehicles, three wheelers, cars, vans, lorries etc . The infrastructure of the urban development of such roads have to be expanded. This would then provide a little more space for vehicles until urban development takes place. It should be a combined effort by the Colombo Mayor and Secretary of Urban Development. 
Another pleasant situation that I observed was locating beautiful Buddha statues at several prominent places and on road sides and junctions with appropriate illumination which were quite apt for a predominantly Buddhist country like Sri Lanka. This practice of placing Buddha statues on road-sides was started by the Radio Ceylon, during the time of Director General, Mr. S.B. Senanayake. 
At that time I was the General Secretary of the Buddhist Association of the Institution and it was not the practice to obtain government money for religious activities. As such when I organised a musical show at the Viharamahadevi Park and collected the required funds. 
I learnt that the Northern region is developing rapidly with several housing projects including luxury apartments such as Thulsi Hotel and commercial complexes also in the offing. The Sanguppidy Bridge that is 288 metres long, is being constructed from Pooneryn to Jaffna. This would reduce the time taken to reach Jaffna drastically. The Army, which was earlier busy fighting terrorists, have now been enlisted to build roads and houses. 
This practice of placing Buddha statues on road-sides was started by the Radio Ceylon, during the time of Director General, Mr. S.B. Senanayake
New roadways with better bridges, hospitals, schools, business complexes were also noticeable. Lands for the landless are also in the offing. We have to allow Tamils in the northern region to utilize their ethnic identity willingly. Every Tamil with a great aspiration expects this and have a glorious pride for their ethnicity. That is an essential factor for unity. Not only Tamils, other ethnicities too should take pride in their national identity and should be allowed to express it freely. To promote the national unity, other communities should be allowed to live in the North and the East. But Tamil citizens should be cautious not to follow their present ambitious leaders who make every attempt to pose themselves as martyrs by following the beaten track of the defeated tiger terrorists. It would be a hindrance for Tamil citizens prosperity. 
I met the renowned and eminent scholar, Dr. K.N.O. Dharmadasa, who wrote the foreword to my controversial history cum religious book Pre-historic Lanka to end of Terrorism. 
You must be wondering why I am praising every aspect of the development strategy of my mother country instead of criticising negative areas. In any government in the globe, negative areas are more according to those who are constantly muddled up with resentments, dislikes and opposition views. Well,it should not be the policy of a country that is eager to see their country developed for the benefit of all its citizens. Even opposition parties should lend their hands to promote nation building while criticizing any damaging action put forward by the government. Development should be important to them too, at least they must respect the voters who sent them to parliament and other governing councils. 
The great hindrance is the intolerable strikes initiated by trade unions in the country initiated by opposition members. If the govt. wants to develop the country and build unity among all the citizens, these so-called strikes should be suspended at least for ten years after taking the health, wealth and happiness of the people into consideration. This is something of utmost importance. During the past few months the higher education activities of all university students came to a standstill as a result of the actions of these so called strikers who had no mercy on the children and younger population of the country. In this connection I wish to refer to the following Trade Union Ordinance: 
Trade Union Ordinance, Section 20 (2) and 21.
According to the Ordinance an association or combination consisting of judicial officers, members of the armed forces, Police officers, Prison officers, and members of any corps established under the Agricultural Corps Ordinance cannot engage in trade union action. 
This restriction should be extended to the educational sector, including higher education as well. 
A.E. Gunasinghe was the father of labour unions in Sri Lanka. He was so thoughtful and never imagined including the education sector in trade union activities. He was so considerate about the national consciousness and education provided to children. He established the labour movement after the visit of Ramsay McDonald, British Labour Party Leader in 1926. It is now up to the National Education Commission to make sure trade union activities do not affect our future generations in a negative way. 
 
		
==============================
## Title: In the spirit of Christmas
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 25 December 2017 02:59 pm
In the spirit of Christmas
	
In the spirit of Christmas, a group of Buddhist monks, including Ven. Prof. Kamburugamuwa Vajira Thera and Ven. Prof. Medagoda Abhayatissa Thera visited Rev. Fr. Sarath Hettiarachchi at his residence in Moratuwa this morning. The monks invoked blessings on the Fr. Hettiarachchi, who was unwell a few days ago. The Rev. Father offered alms to the monks as well. Pics by Pradeep Dilrukshana 
 
		
==============================
## Title: Interpol notices on Kosgoda Sujee, Makandure Madush
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 25 December 2017 03:27 pm
Interpol notices on Kosgoda Sujee, Makandure Madush
	
The Interpol had issued notices for the arrest of two underworld leaders Kosgoda Sujee and Makandure Madush, STF Commandant Senior DIG M.R. Lateef said.
He said the STF had requested the CID to issue a red notice on the 33-year-old Jagamuni Sujeewa De Soyza alias Kosgoda Sujee, while a blue notice was issued on Samarasinghe Arachchige Madush Lakshitha alias Makandure Madush.
The duo was involved in a number of murders and drug trafficking in the country. However, they have operated these crimes from overseas using their network of accomplices.
It was reported that the duos arrest was to be made as soon as possible so as to ensure peaceful Local Government elections.
The Interpol issues a red notice to seek the location and arrest of wanted persons with a view to extradition or similar lawful action, while the blue notice is issued to collect additional information about a persons identity, location or activities in relation to a crime.
Meanwhile, the Interpol also issued red notice on two Sri Lankans, Antony Emil Luxmi Kanthan and Munisamy Tharmaseelan over criminal misappropriation and weapons possession.(Darshana Sanjeewa)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Maya Senanayake  a woman for all seasons
## Section: News Features
## Date: 25 December 2017 12:00 am
Maya Senanayake  a woman for all seasons
	
Mothers come in all shapes and sizes, and mine came as a package of innumerable talents and ideals.
She combined the tenacity of her father who, from a village boy, became arguably one of Sri Lankas foremost mathematical minds and the adventurism of an English mother who made this country her home due to her life-long commitment to education.
Living with educationalist parents meant she moved with them, and her life was built around schools. Starting with Ananda College  where she was, at the time of her passing, the oldest old girl  to a myriad of other institutions that her parents chose to establish or uplift. I remember her constant complaint that they would mark her papers down purposely to show there was no favouritism.
What was most impressive was how she threw herself into her interests with huge commitment - sewing like a professional, knitting all our so-called Nuwara Eliya clothes, crocheting her own designs and even mastering the complex lace pillow. When it came to batik, she taught herself enough to make her own clothes, and during her pottery stage, pieces of unique design would appear in her Whatnot duly signed and dated at the bottom.
What was most impressive was how she threw herself into her interests with huge commitment
In sports, she was equal to any task: she played a mean game of tennis often with the love of her life, my father, and rode horses and competed in swimming with equal aplomb. Badminton, Tabletennis bring it on, she would say, and would display her fierce competitiveness with no quarter given. Being a police officers wife immediately made her a fan of all the forces teams, and her particular favourite was rugby. Here she would cast aside the polite reserve of an IGPs wife to boisterously cheer the team from the front-row seats. Her four boys and husband would cower when she would loudly question the referees decision and look to us for support.
Pragmatism and multi-tasking were words invented for her: all decisions had to be well thought out, practical and self-sustaining. So it seemed the natural thing to do when she launched a factory to tailor police uniforms that employed only policemens children and wives. Such was also the case when she embarked on building a three-storey building as president of the All Ceylon Womens Buddhist Congress and a training bakery, accommodation for its female trainees and a retail outlet to cover the relevant expenses. These and many other positions she held in benevolent organization came at a price as her no-nonsense approach was not appreciated by all - though in hindsight, they all agree she had the best interest of those bodies at heart.
Pragmatism and multi-tasking were words invented for her: all decisions had to be well thought out, practical and self-sustaining
Then there was Maya, the business women. Accepting the challenge to manage the printing press that was producing my grandfathers standard-issue school books at the time, she managed a team of sixty employees whilst balancing the care of her four boys and a husband whose career was progressing rapidly. As the self-reliant person she was, she drove her trusted Morris station wagon herself, not hesitating to admonish any motorist who crossed her path.
Amidst all this we saw a mother to whom family meant everything,  not in a spoiling or passive sense but one who encouraged and guided. She taught us to be practical but at the same time hugs and kisses were there in plenty. Every birthday cake, every big match outfit, every cricket match my brothers played were considered personal duties by her; the quintessential daughter, wife and mother.
As her 91st birthday draws near, it is hard to accept that she is gone but, in her own words, her work here is done.
Athula  
 
		
==============================
## Title: Message of Christ :  True power lies in our powerlessness
## Section: News Features
## Date: 25 December 2017 12:00 am
Message of Christ :  True power lies in our powerlessness
	
For to us a child is born,to us a son is given. (Isaiah 9:6)
The Most Vulnerable Birth
Amongst other things, Christmas is not only about a certain child who was born a long time ago but also about children from all places and all times. Jesus was born at a particular time and at a particular locality and hence all times and all places are sacred and extraordinary. Time and space are divinely sanctified for they are graced by Jesus by being born into this world. With the coming of Jesus, there are no such things as ordinary time and ordinary space or ordinary locality.
Jesuss birth was the birth which had no economic or social stability. It was the birth of vulnerability, uncertainty and fragility par excellence. From birth to death, he was homeless, penniless, powerless, rootless and vulnerable. True power lies, paradoxically, in our powerlessness and in our helplessness. True spiritual growth and maturity lies in our constant insecurities in their multifaceted manifestations. Tough circumstances under which we are born can make us great and profound, if we know how to transcend them creatively.
Children as Miracles
Every child is a child from God and of God. There is no birth ever that is not desired, nourished acknowledged and blessed by God. Each child is a direct blessing from God and therefore the living God is actively and actually present at every birth of a child. Children are marvelous miracles through and through and God is the author of every single miracle in this world. Every single birth furthers the ongoing mystery of the universe. The whole universe is one grand birth and each human birth sings, praises and glorifies the grandeur of the universe and the majesty of its Creator. The whole emerging and evolving universe is one great, grand and gradual song of praise. Each child is a song, a hymn, a melody and a symphony too in the Divine orchestra.
Creation is no longer the same with Jesuss nativity. Creation is held, upheld, uplifted by Christ. Creation is God letting be and letting becoming. Creation is the meaning of all that is going on. The whole universe has been longing for, bursting forth for its Saviour. The universe is breaking forth into singing and crying aloud for its Restorer. The universe is lifting up its voice like a trumpet for its Liberator. The creation has been waiting with eager longing for the revealing of its Emancipator. The whole creation has been groaning in travail together for its Deliverer and Jesus has increased its festive joy and delight and the cosmos rejoices before its Creator as with joy at the harvest.
The Mystery of Incarnation
Every birth contains a spark of the Divine incarnation. Every child carries within oneself a spark of the divinity. There is a whisper of God in every child. Jesus speaks to us gently and intimately in and through every child and one needs the eye of faith to understand this reality. Every cry of a child is a mystical and musical whisper. God is present tangibly and liquidly even in the cry of a child. Every tear manifests the love of Christ in a microcosmic manner. By being born in to this universe, Jesus embraces, accepts and affirms every other birth; every child is, without any exception, accepted, affirmed, loved and cared for by Jesus without conditions, restrictions, limitations and reservations.
Life as a Gift from God
Life is the gift per excellence from God and hence it is absolutely precious. Since human beings possess the most vulnerable and fragile childhood amongst all the creatures, we need one another and ultimately God to depend on. God is the Author, Creator, Preserver and Sustainer of whole of life and of all life forms.
Christ lives and is active ceaselessly and tirelessly in every child. Christ continues to live in every child and every child lives in Christ too. Not to live in Christ is not live fully. Every child is also a potential Christ. Jesus too had a childhood in solidarity with all children, born and unborn, in the world. Child is the mother and father of humanity. Whoever abuses a child ceases to be a Christian for child abusers are the enemies of Christ and therefore the enemies of humanity.
Children have one true friend in Jesus and therefore every child must befriend Jesus in order to really enjoy ones childhood. When one becomes Jesuss best friend, one also becomes ones best friend.
When one becomes ones best friend, one also becomes the best friend of others. Jesus is much closer to us than we are closer to ourselves. Jesus is also a child who understands and empathises with every other child. Children are the queens and the kings of the kingdom of the God.
Every child is adorable and admirable. Every child is a carrier and container of the divine mystery. Every child too reflects the glory, power, grandeur, beauty and majesty of God. God became a child in Jesus in order to redeem us from our childish ways. God took flesh in order for us to take our fleshly and bodily reality seriously. Human body is the temple of the Holy spirit and it is also the privilege site of the Divine incarnation. The birth of Christmas was the birth of a human body in Bethlehem and how that body was broken, sacrificed, shared and given away for the life of the world and for the sake of other bodies. Whatever is not shared generously is lost forever.
It is Jesuss body that sustains the whole humanity, even if most of us do not acknowledge it or are not really aware of it. In this light, we can never neglect or underestimate our bodily and earthly existence and integrity. God Speaks in and through our bodies. It means that we should concretely take care of our bodies , health, well being, spirituality and sexuality. Christmas is also about eating properly; that is, about eating good food, life-giving food not junk food or plastic food. To abuse ones body is a disservice to God. To love God is also to take care of ones health. The glory of God is human body becoming fully, joyfully and exuberantly, gigilingly alive.
Christianity is the only religion that claims that God assumed a bodily form for once and for all and therefore we should be committed to our bodily integrity. We must also take concrete actions against whoever tries to destroy this Gods world through greed, selfishness, hatred, exploitation, terrorism, sexploitation, oppression, violence and injustice. To be born on earth is to renew the earth anew. There is an intimate link between the human body and the earth. They are like two sides of the same coin. To abuse one is to destroy the other. How we treat the human body is normally the way we treat the earth. The earth is our second skin without which human life is absolutely impossible.
Celebration of Awareness
The Spirit of incarnation is the spirit of joy, unconditional love and hope. The Divine incarnation is the transfusion of new life into the bloodstream of the already pulsating arteries of humankind. During Christmas season we ought to experience this fascination from the marrows of our bones. Christmas celebration is the awareness of joy and the exuberance of hope. To celebrate is to hope and to keep the hope alive amid the medley of growing anxiety and darkness.
Music for the Christ Child: A boy is born for us
With Jesuss birth the whole human race is also born once again. The birth of Jesus is the birth of the new humanity, no more and no less. Our birth is not only biological but also theological and spiritual. Every birth has a theological dimension. Every birth is extraordinary, precious and unique. No birth is ordinary or uninteresting. Every new birth is the birthing of a new dimension of this universe. Every newly born baby enhances the meaning of this universe. Every time a child is born the universe is also born again and anew and transformed. The birthing of a child is the rebirth of the universe.
To be born into this world is the greatest gift and greatest privilege one could receive from God. This absolutely means that nobody can take anothers life and justify it. There are no justifications whatsoever for murder no matter who commits it for whatever cause. Only God can take a human life away.
Love and Forgiveness
To be born is to be born for the others. One is never born for oneself alone. In this sense, to be born is the most selfless act. We are free to the extent we serve others. The birth of Jesus is the death of the power of sins over our lives. Jesuss birth continues to affect every other birth and it has radically altered the way we understand even those who had been born before Christ. His salvation affects even those who had never heard of his birth. Christ is our true happiness and the very fulfillment and the end of all our aspirations and inspirations. He is our complete freedom, our complete joy and the fountain and summit of our interior freedom and liberation. True freedom stems from Christ, is sustained by Christ and returns to Christ. Freedom is our innate capacity to love and serve people we habitually do not like. Not to love Christ is the beginning of all our unhappiness and misery for there is nothing beyond Christ. Christ is everything, everything to everyone. So we must constantly give him a shelter in our hearts and our hearts must tabernacle him on a daily basis.
To be born into this world is the greatest gift and greatest privilege one could receive from God. This absolutely means that nobody can take anothers life and justify it. There are no justifications whatsoever for murder no matter who commits it for whatever cause. Only God can take a human life away. We are in danger of increasingly becoming a culture that glorifies, praises, encourages and justifies violence. we should always wish that there were more humane ways of dealing with killers, rapists, robbers and terrorists.
There are no crimes beyond forgiveness with God, if people truly and sincerely accept, repent and ask for pardon. Forgiveness is the very air we breathe. In actual fact we are all forgiven sinners for God loves us and forgives us unconditionally and therefore unrepented life is not worth living. God is the Forgiver and the Lover par excellence.
At this Christmas we should be determined to give birth to a new life. Those who do not want to change their life-styles are not really qualified to celebrate Christmas. Christmas is the celebration of the true disciples of Christ. To celebrate Christmas without sharing in its true spirit is to betray it. To celebrate Christmas is to be Christ-like through and through. Christmas also means making of a Christ out of a child and appreciating children in Christ.
 
		
==============================
## Title: MR, Namal visit Sampanthan
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 25 December 2017 08:17 pm
MR, Namal visit Sampanthan
	
Former President Mahinda Rajapaksa and his son Parliamentarian MP Namal Rajapaksa visited the Leader of the Opposition and TNA R. Sampanthan, who was in a private hospital in Colombo due to illness, the party said today. The TNA said Mr. Sampanthan, who was admitted to the hospital last Thursday, had recovered fully and returned home today.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Postal voting on January 25, 26
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 25 December 2017 01:15 pm
Postal voting on January 25, 26
	
Postal Voting for the upcoming Local Government Polls would be held on January 25 and 26, the Elections Commission announced today.
Officials of the Elections Department and Police personnel could cast their postal votes on January 22, a Spokesman for the Commission said.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Presidential pardon for 526 prisoners
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 25 December 2017 12:53 pm
Presidential pardon for 526 prisoners
	
Around 526 prisoners serving jail terms for minor offences were released today under the Presidential pardon on the occasion of Christmas Day.
Prisons Department Commissioner H.M.T.N. Upuldeniya said they were selected from prisons across the island based on their behaviour during the detention period.
Accordingly, inmates were also given a special opportunity to meet their relatives today between 9a.m. and 4p.m .
Mr. Upuldeniya said special religious celebrations were also organised in prisons to mark the Christmas Day. (Thilanka Kanakarathna)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Putin critic Navalny barred from Russian presidential election
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 25 December 2017 11:02 pm
Putin critic Navalny barred from Russian presidential election
	
Russian opposition leader Alexei Navalny was barred on Monday from running in next year's presidential election after officials ruled he was ineligible to take part due to a suspended prison sentence he says was trumped up.
The decision by the central election commission was widely expected as election officials had repeatedly declared Navalny would be ineligible to run. Twelve members of the 13-member commission voted to bar Navalny. One member abstained, citing a possible conflict of interest.
Navalny, 41, who polls show would struggle to beat incumbent Vladimir Putin in the March election, said he would appeal and called on his supporters to boycott the election and campaign against it being held.
We knew this could happen, and so we have a straight-forward, clear plan, Navalny said in a pre-recorded video released immediately after the decision.
We announce a boycott of the election. The process in which we are called to participate is not a real election. It will feature only Putin and the candidates which he has personally selected. Navalny said he would use his campaign headquarters across Russia to support the boycott and monitor turnout on voting day, March 18.
Polls show Putin, 65, who has dominated Russia's political landscape for the last 17 years, is on course to be comfortably re-elected, making him eligible to serve another six years until 2024, when he turns 72.
Allies laud Putin as a father-of-the-nation figure who has restored national pride and expanded Moscow's global clout with interventions in Syria and Ukraine.
Navalny says Putin's support is exaggerated and artificially maintained by a biased state media and an unfair system. He says he could defeat him in a fair election, an assertion Putin's supporters have said is laughable.
'DO THE RIGHT THING' Before the commission voted, Navalny, dressed in a dark suit, had demanded he be allowed to take part in the election delivering a speech that angered election officials.
In one heated exchange, he said Russian voters' faith in the system hung in the balance.
If you do not allow me to run, you are taking a decision against millions of people who are demanding that Navalny take part, he said, referring to himself in the first person.
You are not robots, you are living, breathing human beings you are an independent body ... for once in your lives, do the right thing, he said.
His supporters clapped him, but officials were unmoved.
Boris Ebzeev, one of the officials, said: We're talking about the law and abiding by the law. Ebzeev said there could not be the slightest doubt that Navalny was ineligible to run, a reference to Russia's constitution that bars him running because of his suspended sentence relating to an embezzlement case.
Navalny has repeatedly denied any wrongdoing, and says the case is politically motivated.
There had been some speculation prior to the decision among the opposition that Navalny might be allowed to run in order to inject more interest into what looks like a predictable contest amid Kremlin fears that apathetic voters might not bother to vote.
Navalny has been jailed three times this year and charged with breaking the law by repeatedly organising public meetings and rallies. (REUTERS)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Reflections on Christmas
## Section: News Features
## Date: 25 December 2017 12:00 am
Reflections on Christmas
	
A quick twelve-month revolution and it is Christmas time once again.
The seasons here scream out the commercials and the advertisements to the jolly strains of Jingle Bells and an even jollier Santa Claus with a fat paunch symbolic of the eating, drinking binge of the season, and a bulging sack full of goodies, whatever they are, according to the forte of the advertiser.
Scenes of raucous laughter, merriment jollity. Wine and song abound, far superseding the sober, tranquil effect of the strains of Silent Night.
Christmas comes but once a year and when it comes it brings good cheer is the hackneyed proverbial reference to Christmas.
Yes! And a cheer of a different sort and of diverse sorts and varieties trumped up for the season. This is the spirit that is highlighted and propagated; not so much the goodwill induced spirit of giving and sharing with the less privileged what God in his bountiful mercy has bestowed on us. Do we pause to think There but for the mercy of God go I
And all this surfeit to celebrate the birth of a lowly babe born in poverty for whom there was no room save in a cow-shed This birth which is truly representative of the lowly and humble and the rejects of the earth is blown completely out of proportion and becomes a celebration of those who can afford the ostentation.
How many are out there who do not know its Christmas time at all.!
True! The birth of Christ who came to redeem mankind, the coming of the Messiah, is a cause for celebration.
But celebration within the bounds of a certain austerity the circumstances of the birth call for. The season savours of glamour. A surfeit of luxuries -exotic food and drink, clothing miscellaneous sundry excesses, partying, dances in plush hotels.
The commercial world has taken over the festival completely. On the other hand families at mere survival level in hovels and shanties who do not know one day from another.
On one side Santas fantastic visits with dream gifts. How come Santa misses or ignores the other side of the street! The innocent, hungry, bereft little ones ponder. They learn early the basics of class distinction. Why have the others everything and we nothing.
The season calls for many souls- searching on the part of those who celebrate. The period before Christmas is the season of Advent.
A spiritual preparation for the coming of the Messiah which is mistaken for a materialistic preparation In our eagerness to have a good time for the season if we but pause awhile to consider Christs birth in relation to the world around us.
The number of rejects among us. Those relegated to orphanages, homes for the aged, the homeless, Let us spare a thought and see the rejection of Christ and His mother in those among and around us
If we could reach out this Christmas day
To the poor. The Forsaken. The down-trodden. The Waif.
To whom this day quite rightly belongs
For Christ was born in a stable forlorn what a gift to the Christ-child that would be
What you do unto others , you dounto me
 
		
==============================
## Title: Rishard has no power to distribute Wilpattu land: Audit report
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 25 December 2017 09:03 am
Rishard has no power to distribute Wilpattu land: Audit report
	
Industry and Commerce Minister Rishard Bathiudeen has no authority to order the Director General of Forest Conservation to release the lands of Vilaththikulam forest reserve for resettlement, according to an audit report.
The report says that the Director General of Conservative of Forest too has no power to release 650 acres from that forest as it has been declared as a reserve. It has been revealed that lands have been distributed among people who were not displaced .
Of them, 1030 families out of 1371 families had taken plots of lands though they had such property elsewhere. The report said though the lands should be allocated among people who were dispossessed due to the war, the beneficiaries were not war affected people. The Auditors have found that though they claimed ownership to these lands after 2009, they failed to produce any document proof of their residence in the area before that.
This report says that an environment impact assessment report has not been obtained and it would have obtained before clear the forest reserve of 650 acres according to the law.
It has been further recommended that the steps must be taken to allocate lands according prevailing law and identify the correct people who have no lands.
In this resettlement, the government should interfere and NGOs who are contributing money and development should do according to national policies, the auditors have recommended.(Vineetha M. Gamage)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Russia agrees to lift tea ban from Dec. 30: Navin
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 25 December 2017 05:01 pm
Russia agrees to lift tea ban from Dec. 30: Navin
	
Russia agreed to lift the temporary restriction on tea imports from Sri Lanka from December 30, following discussions with the Sri Lankan technical team, Plantation Industries Minister Navin Dissanayake said today.
The Minister told the Daily Mirror that Russian authorities had set several criteria to be met by the Sri Lankan tea exporters, such as to maintain purity of the containers used for tea exports and adhere to fumigation methods.
He said the Sri Lankan tea exporters had agreed to adopt the criteria set out by the Russian authorities.
A six-member team went to Moscow a few days ago for a discussion on the Russias recent restriction on tea imports from Sri Lanka.(Ajith Siriwardana)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Selfie tragedy
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 25 December 2017 10:02 am
Selfie tragedy
	
Two 17-year-old school children drowned in Kallady Oya in Pudukuduirippu last evening while they were taking a selfie, Police said.
They said a group of seven school children had gone to bathe in the Kallady Oya and the two victims had gone into the middle of the Oya to take a selfie and had fallen into a pit created due to sand mining.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Seven killed in road accidents during past 24 hours
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 25 December 2017 11:47 am
Seven killed in road accidents during past 24 hours
	
At least seven people were killed in several accidents reported in different parts of the country during the past twenty four hours, Police said.
They said two 18-year-old motorcyclists were killed in Ganemulla when their motorcycle collided with a bus last night, while another youth was killed when the motorcycle he was riding on veered off the road and hit a lamppost in Vaddukoddai, Jaffna last evening.
A 17-year-old youth was killed in a motorcycle accident in Elpitiya last evening, the Police said.
A 53-year-old man was killed in a three-wheeler accident in Mahiyanganaya while another 24-year-old youth was killed in Pelmadulla when his car veered off the road and toppled over.
Police said an 84 year-old man was knocked down by a car in Hungama last night.
 
		
==============================
## Title: SL gets State party seat at MBT meeting in Austria
## Section: News Features
## Date: 25 December 2017 12:00 am
SL gets State party seat at MBT meeting in Austria
	
After almost two decades, Sri Lanka got a seat as a State party to the Mine Ban Treaty (MBT) celebrates its 20th Anniversary this year, at the 16th meeting of State parties which was held at the United Nations in Vienna, Austria from 18th to 21st December. Ms. Priyani Wijesekera, Ambassador, and Permanent Representative of Sri Lanka in Austria delivered the Governments statement during the opening ceremony of the meeting. Sri Lanka acceded to the MBT on 13th December 2017 and became the 163rd State party to sign it. 
The Sri Lankan delegation had an opportunity to meet with the special envoys of the MBT, Her Royal Highness Princess Astrid of Belgium and His Royal Highness Prince Mired of Jordan. Both special envoys congratulated Sri Lanka on its accession to the MBT during their speeches at the main plenary meeting. Throughout the 4-day global meeting, Sri Lanka was congratulated and honoured by the international humanitarian disarmament community. Becoming a State party to the MBT will guarantee that future generations will have a safer and more peaceful environment to live in and cherish without fear of anti-personnel land-mines. 
Maj. General G.D.I. Karunaratne and Colonel P.T. Paranagama of Sri Lanka Army, Irosha Cooray Counsellor and Namal Wijayamuni Zoysa Second Secretary of Permanent Mission of Sri Lanka in Austria, Vidya Abhayagunawardena Coordinator, and Nillasi Liyanage youth campaigner of Sri Lanka Campaign to Ban Landmines were present on this occasion. 
 
		
==============================
## Title: Symbols of Christmas
## Section: News Features
## Date: 25 December 2017 12:00 am
Symbols of Christmas
	
The fact that Christmas celebrations had started during the time of Romans as a holiday festivel is a generally accepted view. It was developed with dedication to Jesus Christ. Some thinkers take it for granted that Christmas is a religious festival to commemorate the birth of Jesus Christ. However, some others do not accept the view that Jesus Christ was born on December 25 and argue that his birth had been taken place on another day. Yet the accepted view today is that Jesus Christ was born at a modest and a humble place  a stable in Bethlehem -on the twenty fifth day of December, two thousand and eighteen years ago.
It was a place of shepherds but the angels who knew that it was the liberator of the humankind that was born conveyed the message first to a group of shepherds who were looking after sheep in a meadow at night on a cold winter day. It is believed that this extraordinary person, the only son of god, Jesus Christ who had come to this world to liberate the humankind from the sufferings of sin.

What Jesus Christ brought with him
With the birth of Jesus Christ mankind got many other things to share among them. Jesus Christ brought with him good qualities such as virtuousness, compassion, kindness, patience or patient endurance and forgiveness. God has sent these qualities to this world with immeasurable and unlimited compassion towards human beings. The fact that Jesus Christ was born in Bethlehem is substantiated by a statement in the Bible.
Ceremony celebrated by the most number of people in the world
Christmas, which is celebrated mainly by Christians as their most important religious festival is incidentally the ceremony celebrated by the most number of people in the world. In Sri Lanka we call this festival Nattalain Sinhala. This is the term derived from the Portuguese word Natal meaning birth - birth of Jesus Christ.
The stable and the manger
Since Jesus Christ is believed to have been born in a stable, the sheep, stable and the manger occupy a prominent place in Christmas celebrations. Members of the family get together to make the model of a manger in the main hall of the house with the baby in a straw bed. Maria, Joseph, kings and sheep stand on either side of angles looking from above.
Many villagers get together under the admonition of the priest to make the manger in the village church. Hence, manger is not only a symbol to commemorate the birth of Jesus Christ but also a means of creating a sense of togetherness among the members of the family and among the members of the external society.
Christmas tree
Another tradition followed during the Christmas season is to erect a Christmas trees in churches and houses. Unlike the miniature of the manger the Christmas tree is not a symbol to commemorate the birth of Jesus Christ. Instead it is a symbol of bringing to our minds the cold and chilly winter season in European countries. In these countries the winter with unbearable cold commences in December.
Trees with evergreen leaves- Oak, Fern and Cyprus
There are certain kinds of trees such as Oak, Fern and Cyprus with evergreen leaves. Before the spread of Christianity in Europe it was customary for the people in countries like Germany, Sweden and Denmark to hang on the roof or to keep in the house a branch of an evergreen tree. On the one hand they did it to bring prosperity to their houses. On the other hand it was a means of indicating the vitality of the nature. In Germany the Christmas tree had been an ancient custom of symbolizing the natural phenomena and later on this practice was followed in other countries.
Decoration of Christmas trees
A Christmas tree is a decorated tree. The tree was traditionally decorated with edibles such as apples, nuts or fruits. In the 18th century devotees began to decorate the Christmas trees with candles which was later replaced by Christmas lights with the advent of electricity. Today there are wide varieties of traditional ornaments such as garlands, tinsel and candy canes. An angel or a star should be placed at the top of the Christmas tree to represent the angel Gabriel or the star of Bethlehem from the Nativity.
Use of Electric bulbs
At present it is customary to decorate the Christmas tree with electric bulbs, laces, balloons etc. Illumination is a means of indicating that the Christmas tree brings effulgence of Jesus Christ in the house or in the church. Presents are hung on the Christmas tree as a mark of rejoicing. Sharing and distributing.
Since Jesus Christ is believed to have been born in a stable, the sheep, stable and the manger occupy a prominent place in Christmas celebrations. Members of the family get together to make the model of a manger in the main hall of the house with the baby in a straw bed.
Tree worship
According to the Encyclopedia Britannica the use of evergreen trees, wreaths and garlands to symbolize the eternal life was the custom of ancient Egyptians, Chinese and Hebrews. Tree worship was common among the Pagan Europeans which survived even after their conversion to Christianity. In the Scandinavian custom of decorating the house and the barn with evergreens at the New Year is to scare away the devil and setting up a tree for the birds during Christmas time. Presents are hung on the Christmas tree as a mark of rejoicing, donating, sharing and distributing.
Santa Claus
Santa Claus is a very important figure during the Christmas season. He is presented in almost all the shops and at the places where Christmas is celebrated. The concept of Santa Claus comes in the eve of Christmas with Christmas gifts, especially to houses where there are children to commemorate father St. Nicholas who was the bishop of Mira in Turkey during the fourth century A.D. It is said that this father was fond of children and had helped the poor and the needy. He was endowed with wealth and property by his parents. He had used this property to help the poor and the needy, especially the children. This made them to believe that he was the saint of children. They paid him reverence. Lately parents began to offer presents to their children in the name of St. Nicholas.
Legends and miracles attributed to Santa Claus
Many Legends and miracles are attributed to him. It is said in the legends that he had to fast five days a week during his infancy because his mother nursed him only on Wednesdays and Fridays. However, his father had left him a fortune which he had used to help the poor. It is said that he adorned the children during his lifetime and threw gifts anonymously through the windows of their houses. Even today sailors adorn him because he had halted storm at sea in order to save the lives of three drowning sailors. He had brought back to life several children who had been killed. He is said to have performed several miraculous acts to be of service to others irrespective of their rank and status. He had grabbed the sward of an executioner to save the life of a political prisoner. St. Nicholas also adopted some qualities of the Grandmother or Bartana from Italy. She was said to have filled the stockings of children with gifts. Her shrine at Bari had also converted to a shrine of St. Nicholas.
Christmas cards
Christmas cards serve the purpose of sharing the pleasure connected with Christmas with friends, relatives and well wishers who live away. The tradition of sending Christmas cards came into being as a result of the felt need to share the pleasure connected with Christmas with those who live away including those who live abroad. Today there are other means such as the face book to serve this purpose.

Christmas services, Christmas Hymns, Christmas Carol and feeling Christmassy
Devotees go to the church on the Christmas day and attend to the services performed by priests. They also perform Christmas rites at home and commemorate the birth of Jesus Christ. Christmas hymns or carols are sung at Christmas to express the feelings of devotion an d to eulogize Jesus Christ as a hero. Songs are mainly about the birth of Jesus Christ and the manner in which the incident of the birth of Jesus Christ was conveyed to the shepherds by the angles.
Wonderful time of the Year
Packed with busy shoppers, bells, colourful lights and Santa Claus Christmas time is thought to be the most wonderful season of the year by many people. Winter with snowy mountains, Christmas trees, decorations, Christmas cards with greetings for prosperity in addition to religious sentiments are very important aspects which make us to take it for granted that this is the most beautiful, happy and blissful day of the year. 
 
		
==============================
## Title: Traffic fines hit record high: Sagala
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 25 December 2017 07:20 am
Traffic fines hit record high: Sagala
	
The revenue collected by the Police as fines over traffic offences across the country during the first ten months of the year stood at a record Rs. 1.958 billion (Rs.1,958,821,220), Law and Order Minister Sagala Ratnayake said.
Spot fines amounted to Rs.1, 302, 171, 043, he said
The fine imposed by the courts on traffic offences is Rs.564, 793,206 and amount of fine imposed on those involved in accidents by courts is Rs.91, 856, 971, the Minister said. (Dayaseeli Liyanage)

 
		
==============================