## Title: Railways declared as an essential service
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 8 December 2017 10:42 pm
Railways declared as an essential service
	
President Maithripala Sirisena has signed the Gazette notification declaring railways as an essential service, Secretary to the President Austin Fernando said.
The decision has been taken following the trade union action, launched by several trade unions of the railway department, since yesterday.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Schools closed for scrutiny of O/L answer scripts
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 8 December 2017 12:39 pm
Schools closed for scrutiny of O/L answer scripts
	
Fifty five schools would be closed completely and another 26 closed partially from January 2 to February 3 next year for scrutiny of GCE (O/L) answer scripts, Examinations Commissioner B, Sanath Pujitha said.
He said that schools that were partially closed would open on January 2 and schools that would be closed completely would reopen on January 15.
The scrutiny of GCE (O/L) answer scripts would be done in two phases, Mr. Pujitha said.
The first phase of the scrutinizing would be held from January 2, 2008 to January 13 and the second phase would be held from January 23, 2017 to February 3, he said.
The schools that are closed completely as follows:
Colombo Hindu, College - Bandarawatta Parakrama Maha Vidyalaya, Gampaha - Keppetipola Maha Vidyalaya, Mudungoda - Thakshila Maha Vidyalaya, Horana- Gnanodaya Maha Vidyalaya, Kalutara - CWW. Kannangara Central College, Mathugama - Dharmasoka College, Ambalangoda-Sivali Central College, Ratnapura -R/Gankanda Central College, Pelmadulla- President College, Embilipitiya -St. Joseph's Girls College, Kegalle- Maliyadeva Adarsha Maha Vidyalaya, Kurunegala- Sir John Kothalawala College, Kurunegala -Ananda National College, Chilaw- Badi Ud Din Mahmud Girls' College, Kandy- Sarasavi Uyana Maha Vidyalaya, Kandy -Kekirawa Central College -Vishaka Girls High School, Badulla- D.S.Senanayake college, Ampara- Wesley High School, Kalmunai-Tamil Central College, Vavuniya - Vincent Girls' High School, Vavuniya - Saint Saviour High School, Mannar- Jaffna Hindu College -Vembadi Girls' High School, Jaffna - Hindu Girls' College, Jaffna- Swarnamali Balika Maha Vidyalaya, Kandy-Teldeniya Madya Maha Vidyalaya, Teldeniya- Parakramabahu Maha Vidyalaya, Gampola -Wijaya National School, Matale -St. thomas national school, Matale- Girls High School,Nuwara Eliya-Mohan Jayamaha Maha Vidyalaya, Dambulla - St. John Bosco's College, Hatton -Highlands College,Hatton - Swarnapali Balika National school, Anuradhapura - Walisinghe Harischandra College, Anuradhapura - Thopawewa Maha Vidyalaya, Polonnaruwa -Kuda Kusum Balika Maha Vidyalaya, Bandarawela -Viharamahadevi Girls School, Badulla - Mahiyangana National School -Welimada Central School- Mahanama Central College, Monaragala - Malwaththawala Central College, Wellawaya - Orishill Vivekananda Vidyalaya, Trincomalee - Mahmud Ladies College, Kalmunai- St. Michael's College National School, Batticaloa - Monawwara Kanishta Vidyalaya, Akkaraipattu - Kilinochchi Maha Vidyalayam and Nelliady Madhya Maha Vidyalayam, Nelliady, Point Pedro
The schools that are closed partially as follows:
Thurstan College Colombo 7 - Asoka College Colombo - Buwanekaba Maha Vidyalaya, Maharagama - Homagama Central College- Piliyandala madya maha vidyalaya, Santha Mariya Maha Vidyalaya, Avissawella - Panadura Balika Vidyalaya - Siddhartha Kumara Maha Vidyalaya, Gampaha - Sanghabodhi college, Nittambuwa - St Peter's College, Negombo - Southlands College, Galle- Anuladevi Girls' School, Galle - Sudharma Maha Vidyalaya, Galle- Janadhipathi Vidyalaya, Matara - Shariputhra College, Matara - St.thomas Balika Vidyalaya, Matara - Ananda Madya Maha Vidyalaya Elpitiya - Godapitiya Madya Maha Vidyalaya, Akuressa - St Mary's National School- Hambantota - Rahula Maha Vidyalaya Tangalle -Tangalle National Boys' School - Mihindu Vidyalaya Ratnapura- Sri buddha jayanthi vidyalaya Ambalangoda -Kegalu Balika Vidyalaya - St Andrew's Madya Maha Vidyalaya Puttlam -Sri Nissanka Vidyalaya - Kurunegala- St. Anne's College, Kurunegala -Holy Family Convent- Kurunegala, Kurunegala- Saranath Maha Vidyalaya, Kuliyapitiya - Mahasen National School, Nikaweratiya - Seetha Devi Balika Maha Vidyalaya, Kandy- Kandy's Wariyapola Sri Sumangala College and Mahanama College, Getambe.
(Chaturanga Pradeep)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Speeding bus leaves conductor behind
## Section: Weird News
## Date: 8 December 2017 07:32 am
Speeding bus leaves conductor behind
	
A driver of a private bus, spotting a considerable number of passengers at a bus halt, overtook the bus that was ahead of him to pick them up and in his hurry left his conductor behind. This ultimately caused a delay of twenty minutes to the passengers of the bus in question.
The story is told of a private bus plying on a main road in the Uva Province. As there were several bends on this road the driver was careful to drive slowly when manoeuvring the bus through these bends. The driver of another bus travelling in the opposite direction informed him that another bus was ahead of him. Soon after receiving the warning the bus driver lost no time in increasing his speed and soon started blaming passengers who were alighting for slowing him down.With great reluctance he stopped the bus to allow passengers to get down along the route taken by him.
The shouts of some of the passengers who were seated in the rear of the bus startled him. They shouted that the bus had left without the bus conductor, who had alighted from the bus to make room for the passengers to disembark.
The driver had no alternative but to halt the bus by the side of the road and wait patiently for the conductor of his bus to catch up. The passengers had enjoyed the scenario only to see the conductor who was left behind getting down from the bus that was following them. (Viyaluwa Correspondent)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Spondylosis  Specialists show how to  work around it!
## Section: Medicine
## Date: 8 December 2017 12:50 am
Spondylosis  Specialists show how to  work around it!
	
We hear the medical term spondylosis which I believe is a difficult word to pronounce and understand. Many patients talk about having spondylosis although a very few understand its true meaning. I will explain in simple terms what spondylosis is and what the patient could do to avoid problems related to this condition. 
First of all, spondy refers to the spine and losis means a problem. Therefore, this term spondylosis is a problem related to the spine. This doesnt necessarily mean that it should be the neck region. We joint specialists use this term to describe mainly wear and tear changes of the spine. Cervical in medical language is the neck, so cervical spondylosis is usually a bit of wear and tear related issues in the neck part of the spine. And then, there are also problems of the lower part of the spine, which is named lumbar spondylosis. Lumbar refers the lower part of the spine. This is where you can feel your lower back curvature. 
Cervical spondylosis how do I feel
Patients with cervical spondylosis have symptoms such as neck pain, stiffness, creaky sounds, pain in the shoulder muscle or even pain shooting down the arms towards hands. Lifting heavy objects, turning the head towards one side or abnormal sleeping postures might aggravate pain. Sometimes the pain is felt near one side of the neck only, which might confuse both the patient as well as the doctor. 
The neck has many bones called the vertebrae which are separated by soft discs. The discs allow the bones to move upon each other. They also do a bit of shock absorption. Somehow the vertebral bones usually do not touch each other. There are small holes in between the bones, on either side, through which nerves spring out and supply the arms. These nerves are at high risk of been crushed as a result of spondylosis. 
Various reasons cause the neck bones to undergo wear and tear. Ageing is one factor. A thing called inflammation can cause wear and tear in the young. With wear and tear your body makes a desperate attempt to repair the neck. This repairing mechanism isnt at all a proper one, and ultimately the body deposits calcium Thrones over unnecessary areas. These calcium spurs or thrones are called osteophytes and can press over certain nerves and cause pain. 
Also cervical spondylosis leads to friction and therefore disrupts the smooth sliding movements of the neck bones. This can cause neck pain as well. 
Neck regions gives rise to numerous nerves. These are like long roots of a tree which extend all the way up to your fingertips. If these nerves are squeezed at their origin, the resulting pain can be felt all over the neck and arm region. 
Surgery the only way out
This is a common question. Most patients dislike the thought of getting the neck bones operated on. Therefore, I will highlight some of the remedies that could be tried before surgery is considered. But please note that patients who have very severe spondylosis definitely require surgical solutions. A delay in surgery can lead to problems with the arms, legs and even urinary /bowel continence. Surgical methods in treating spondylosis are based on the concept of removing unnecessary bony or disc particles that cause pressure on structures. There are two ways of removal; namely the anterior approach where the surgeon operates on the front part of the neck and posterior approach. In selected patients, surgery ultimately leads to a cure. Most of the other remedies described below are meant for patients with mild to moderate spondylosis. 
Pros and cons of using neck collars
For decades there had been a debate on whether a neck collar helps in spondylosis. A soft collar usually doesnt limit movement of the neck and usually isnt helpful at all. Hard collars limit neck movement, but these reduce tone in the neck muscles in the long run. So discontinuation might lead to neck stiffness. 
Some of the spondylosis symptoms disappear over a few years, according to research. A few patients might have permanent pain. 
Medicine
There are various types of medicine meant for spondylosis. NSAIDS (Non steroid anti inflammatory drugs) are very useful for short term pain relief. These mainly act on muscles that are affected through cervical spondylosis. 
Muscle relaxants help to ease the tension and are best preferred during the night. A drug category named tricyclic anti-depressants, which were earlier used to treat depression, are also useful with some patients. Another type of drug called gabapentin is useful especially if the consultant detects pain originating from the nerves.
Lifestyle modification and ergonomics
I come across patients who are keen on lifestyle modifications for joint related issues. Similarly, ergonomics, especially work place ergonomics matter a lot regarding spondylosis. So what is ergonomics It is an applied science concerned with designing and arranging things people use, so that the people and things interact most efficiently and safely.
For cervical spondylosis I will explain a few things that you might find useful. First of all, take half hour breaks if you are doing an office based job. Standing and walking a few steps is very beneficial during these breaks. When seated make sure your neck is directly above your shoulders. It shouldnt lean/bend forward. Adjust the seat height, so that your face is in front of the screen, if you are operating a computer. Also your feet should rest on the floor. Pull behind your pelvis/buttock, so that it touches the back of your seat. Ideally the seat should have arm rests which are adjustable. 
Bending the neck forward and at the same time rotating it might harm the tiny structures within your neck. I always promote gentle, home based, neck mobilisation exercises.
Physical modalities
Heat therapy, cold therapy, trigger point injections and trans cutaneous nerve stimulation are popular methods for treating spondylosis. Neck traction is helpful in some patients although excessive traction could lead to further disabilities. Traction is only used in mild to moderate cervical spondylosis. Neck manipulation is also done by some practitioners although its dangerous in patients with fractures and dislocations.

Before trying out remedies for cervical spondylosis it is always advised to meet and discuss with a joint specialist regarding the intensity of your symptoms. A mixture of treatment modalities provide relief to many patients. 
 
		
==============================
## Title: The culture of envy
## Section: News Features
## Date: 8 December 2017 12:00 am
The culture of envy
	
Its convenient now and then to root our collective, national incapacity for something, anything, in our (real or imagined) feelings of cultural inferiority. Not just convenient, but also justifiable, given our harrowing trysts with colonialism. But what is convenient and justifiable emotionally and in terms of rhetoric isnt always what is true and what should be true. That is why we have to move on, though not at the cost of forgetting what decades and centuries of black-and-white exploitation left us with; a ramshackle economy which never took off thanks in large part to the inability of the colonial (and post-colonial) bourgeoisie to transform it into an industrialised society. Our bourgeoisie are modernists only when it comes to their ability to emulate superficially the Occident. Theyll probably be surprised to learn that Anagarika Dharmapala, whom they vilify using all sorts of expletives and what-not today, was more of a modernistthan them.
The irony is that our elite sent their children to Oxford and Cambridge for the sole purpose of entering that Civil Service
We are a nation of imitators because the colonial bourgeoisie are still in power
Some of these former insurrectionists have today become apologists for whatever government spouts their rhetoric

I believe that a firm engagement with history, its pluses and minuses, its flattering and less than flattering facets, is what makes for the blooming and nurturing of a cultural sensibility. In Sri Lanka that sensibility never really endured for long, considerably owing to the fact that we are, after all, still a post-colonial society. Our filmmakers and artists are wont to describing our society as post-war, but in this they are only partly correct; neither the war, nor the efforts made at building bridges after the war, can conceal the inexorable culture of apathy on the one hand and elitism on the other hand which our bourgeoisie continues to stand for. And affirm. The emergence of an alternative education system in the late 70s and 80s is, I rather suspect, a good indication of that culture. For the fact of the matter is, and I am being quite blunt here, that the rise and proliferation of private, international schools was a vague result of the emergence of a swabasha education sector after 1956. The one necessitated the other through English. 
It has been said of Israel that its founding fathers (and mothers) were idealists, while those who were chosen to lead it after their demise were the realists. I suppose the same can be said of other incidents in history, including the founding of the United States, with the truism that ideals are always tempered by disenchantment. The aborted project that was 1956, which we can trace to the writings of Dharmapala and also, faintly, in the Buddhist Renaissance brought about by the Theosophists, empowered one generation, a generation who were already vassals to an education system which privileged entrance to the Civil Service as the only mark of distinction in society that mattered. The irony is that our elite sent their children to Oxford and Cambridge for the sole purpose of entering that Civil Service, and not for anything that was nationally, economically, productive. (Part of the reason why P. de S. Kularatne returned to Sri Lanka to act as Principal at Ananda College was his realisation that the British were less interested in the Civil Service he himself hoped to enter than his own countrymen.) 
The fringe movement of the JVP has always been that partys most vocal, committed, and eloquent crusader against the intrusion of the private sphere on the public
Rise of the middle class
The rift which existed before 1956 was largely economic but also determined by language, specifically English. In his book on the LSSP, Working Underground, Regi Siriwardena observes that in colonial society the latter sometimes overrode the former to such an extent that even the middle class, bereft of privilege and occupying an intermediate position between the haves and have-nots, were able to rise socially. A revolution, cultural or political, is decided at the outset by this intermediate class, who enjoyed the benefits of a median position without the inhibitions and deficiencies that visited the elite and the multitude equally. Siriwardena became our foremost critic, translating our cultural sphere to the patrons of the Lionel Wendt and our English Departments despite his inability to wield Sinhala, the language of the 1956 revolution, properly. But this intermediate position wasnt filled only by those who spoke and wrote in English. It was also filled by the rural and the urban Sinhala Only bourgeoisie. They would elect Bandaranaike as the idealists, while their children would become the realists. 
The dichotomy between the ideal and the real in our cultural and political spheres this point reveals is important because, carried away by the world of social empowerment that the Bandaranaike Government promised would open to the Sinhala Only bourgeoisie, the idealistic elders educated their later-to-be pragmatic children in the vernacular, forgetting, or choosing to ignore, the fact that what transpired in 1956 was the substitution for the hitherto existing class discrepancies of a more insidious form of elitism. The social rifts which prevailed until then were bottled up, repressed in fact, until what resulted was a culture of envy (as I pointed out last week). A key element of this new culture of envy was the inability of those who had been promised rice from the moon to comprehend the alternate space that the English intelligentsia carved for themselves here. The latter lacked the numbers, but what they lacked in numbers was compensated for by their sway over policy. They became, in short, the policy elite: Michael Youngs technocrats.
Our filmmakers and artists are wont to describing our society as post-war, but in this they are only partly correct
And in seeing the hegemony that these new elites and their offspring wallowed in, the empowered ones found themselves quickly to be disempowered and disarmed. They were the insurrectionists who had felt betrayed by a largely obsolete left movement. They attempted to abort elected governments in 1971 and 1988, the former largely drawn from our universities and the latter from the rural, political South. (Its interesting to note here that many of those who led the 1971 insurrection, and were later rehabilitated, remained JVPers while partaking of the NGO sphere that invaded the country in the eighties. Some of these former insurrectionists have today become apologists for whatever government spouts their rhetoric of federalism and devolution.) Being largely rural and pragmatic they would have realised the follies of their elders who had elected for swabasha in 1956. Being insurrectionists they would have confused the follies of their elders for an excuse, on their part, to discern each and every organ of the State  including the judiciary and the education sector  as an arm of a rightwing status quo.

Crusaders
The fringe movement of the JVP has always been that partys most vocal, committed, and eloquent crusader against the intrusion of the private sphere on the public. But in being radicals they were unable to fully become the pragmatists that the Sinhala Only middle class and bourgeoisie were, because while the Sinhala Only peasantry became disenchanted and turned into crusaders, the former forewent on their fidelity to the rhetoric of 1956 and embraced the same uprooted, neither-here-nor-there lifestyle that their parents had heard Dharmapala condemn. We are a nation of imitators because the colonial bourgeoisie are still in power. When we see them emulate the West thinking that the West is best, we want to emulate them because in that act of emulation we are guaranteed social upliftment. So when our education sector was opened to the private sphere in the eighties, with the establishment of international schools, the children of the children of 1956, who hailed from the Sinhala Only middle class, embraced them. They had been educated in the vernacular. Owing to the feelings of insecurity this compelled in them, they chose to send their children, not to the bastions of vernacular education their elders had idealised, but to the institutions of privilege those elders had decried.
Siriwardena became our foremost critic, translating our cultural sphere to the patrons of the Lionel Wendt and our English Departments
Sinhala only
The international school system in Sri Lanka was initially divided into two broad categories: the elite schools that catered to the children of diplomats and other top-ranking professionals, and the budget schools that catered to the middle class. The latter made and continues to make good business sense because, in stark contrast to the former, they were targeted not at a specific market segment but at an entire sensibility: the sensibility that had grown tired of the Sinhala Only rhetoric of the Bandaranaike years. They had studied in Sinhala and had come to know how lowly they were regarded by their better off countrymen. So they sent their children, thinking and hoping that those children would not meet the fate they had. This class still flourishes because there is always a middle class that studied in the vernacular, who wish to see their children acquire the privileges that proficiency in English and a Westernised education bring.
 
But then the international school system, which had before bifurcated between the elitist institutions on the one hand and the budget institutions on the other, splintered off to yet another category, this one comprising of institutions which were set up everywhere, on an ad-hoc basis, because (to this date) private and international schools are not monitored by the State. The milieu that patronises these new international schools do not approximate to the middle class that earlier sent their offspring to the budget institutions. They belong to a more ruralised, less ambitious, but nevertheless pragmatic milieu, whose knowledge of English is far less than that of the post-1956 Sinhala Only bourgeoisie. This makes good business sense because these new schools are staffed by teachers who are paid more relative to the state sector (but who are technically unqualified) and because their standards, or the lack thereof, are never questioned by their intended customers (who after all cant spot out the mistakes in the curriculum their children are taught). 
All these leave much to reflect on. What that is, however, I will get to next week.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Tie-up with SLFP failed as ministers reluctant to give up perks: JO
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 8 December 2017 04:45 am
Tie-up with SLFP failed as ministers reluctant to give up perks: JO
	
The joint opposition yesterday said the attempts made by them to join hands with the Sri Lanka Freedom Party (SLFP) in the upcoming elections had failed since several ministers were not ready give up their ministerial privileges.
Joint opposition member MP Mahinda Yapa Abeywardena told a news conference that they were basically a part of the SLFP and added that the ownership of the SLFP could not be determined on factors like its headquarters or designations.
The place which implements the partys policy will be considered as the SLFP. The joint opposition will always stand by the SLFPs policy. But there is no space for SLFP in the government. They do not follow the SLFP policy he added.
He said therefore the joint opposition could not fall in line with the present procedure. He also said that they did not have any other issue with this regard expect over matters related to the partys policy.
Therefore, initially we invited the SLFP to join hands with us by leaving the government. Then we can take huge steps ahead together in politics. No minister agreed to the said decision since they were keen on protecting their ministerial perks and privileges. Therefore, nothing could be done us, he added.
While commenting on the special statement by Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe which is scheduled to be presented today, MP Abeywardena said that Prime Minister Wickremesinghe could be regarded as the first Prime Minister who had made the highest number of blank statements in the Parliaments history.
He alleged even though the Prime Minister had made many special statements in Parliament, all of them were useless and added that they had only resulted in misleading people. (Kalathma Jayawardhane)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Train strike: Thousands stranded
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 8 December 2017 11:19 am
Train strike: Thousands stranded
	
While thousands of commuters were stranded in railway stations the Railway Trade Union Alliance said the strike action which were launched last night was a success.
While speaking to the Daily Mirror the spokesman of the union said several trains had operated yesterday but not after midnight.
He also said no higher authority responded to them and therefore, they would continue the strike today as well.
However, the Railway Control Room said 14 trains had been operated by this morning.
They said eight long distance trains were arrived in Colombo Fort and another six trains were operated between Panadura and Ragama. (Chaturanga Pradeep)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Transport Ministry requests Railway TUs to call off strike
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 8 December 2017 05:30 am
Transport Ministry requests Railway TUs to call off strike
	
The Civil Aviation and Transport Ministry yesterday had requested Railway Trade Unions to call off their strike considering the inconvenience caused to the public as well as to the students sitting for the GCE O/L Examination.
Several trade unions including Train Controllers' Union, Railway Engine Drivers' Union, Railway Station Masters' Union and the Railway Guards' Union launched a strike from Wednesday midnight citing several demands.
They urged the government to abolish an Act that was being followed to recruit Assistant Engine Drivers at a higher salary scale saying it went against the existing Railway recruitment procedure.
The Ministry said a discussion was held between Ministry Secretary G. S. Vithanage, Railways General Manager S. Mahanama and the Locomotive Engineers Union at the Ministry yesterday in a bid to resolve the issue.
Ministry Secretary G. S. Vithanage had wanted the trade unions to resolve the matter through discussion and pointed out that the Supreme Court had already given an order based on a case filed by the Engine Driver's Assistance Union over the examination being held to recruit Assistant Engine Drivers.
The secretary said a government servant cant go against the rulings of the court but promised to do his best to resolve the matter.
Meanwhile, he said the Sri Lanka Transport Board (SLTB) and National Transport Commission (NTC) had deployed additional buses to avoid the inconvenience caused to the public due to the railway strike. (Darshana Sanjeewa)
 
		
==============================
## Title: UNP in front due to SLFP-JO split: Amaraweera
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 8 December 2017 07:15 pm
UNP in front due to SLFP-JO split: Amaraweera
	
Saying the SLFP would have emerged the absolute winner at the upcoming local government polls countrywide if the joint opposition had joined the party, UPFA General Secretary and Minister, Mahinda Amaraweera admitted that the UNP would be the ultimate beneficiary of the split.
Our objective was to confront the UNP by amassing all the political forces including the JO, on the UPFA ticket. By doing so we would have won a majority of local government bodies. But the SLFP - JO talks collapsed because of the greedy and unreasonable demands of a few in the JO with the result that the UNP is now in an advantageous position, he said.
The minister said the SLFP always wanted to keep the party undivided and contest the LG polls as a common front with all other like-minded parties.
He said the SLFP led UPFA would contest the polls with several minority parties on the UPFA ticket and win the election.
"The JO and the SLPP are now chasing a mirage unaware of their plight. They will realize their political blunder when the results of the LG polls are declared. Not only have the members of the Wimal Weerawansa-led National Freedom Front but members of many other parties have made overtures to the SLFP," the minister said.
He said the SLFP has been caught up in treachery, betrayal and legal action from the start but has emerged unscathed and ruled the country for more than three decades.
Top SLFPers like Maithripala Sirisena, T.B. Illangaratne, C.P. De Silva, P.B.G. Kalugalle and many others deserted the SLFP but it survived. Even the son and daughter of party founder S.W.R.D. Bandaranaike and Sirimavo Bandaranaike left the party. But ultimately they achieved success in politics after returning to the SLFP, the minister said.(Sandun A Jayasekera)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Vital to save and boost agricultural sector: PM
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 8 December 2017 10:45 pm
Vital to save and boost agricultural sector: PM
	
Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe today stressed the need to save the countrys agriculture sector which had already suffered a minus growth in the face of climatic changes and assured that the country's food security would be maintained despite the adverse conditions.
He said international institutions such as the World Bank had warned of serious consequences of climate change. "The impact of climate change will be channeled primarily through the water cycle, with consequences that could be large and uneven across the globe. Water related climate risks cascade through food, energy, urban, and environmental systems," he said quoting a recent World Bank report.
The Prime Minister said the adverse weather conditions have already reduced growth of the agriculture sector to 1.2 per cent and only 10,712 hectares of vegetables were grown during the Yala season though 47,980 hectares of such vegetables were grown usually during a given season. He said low country vegetables had also suffered the same fate and only 19,000 hectares of low country vegetables were grown in the Yala season though usually, 32,216 hectares were cultivated.
We are not making excuses and are ready to take up the responsibility of ensuring food security. However it is important to explain the reality to the nation, the Premier said.
Referring to the setback suffered by coconut production, he said by May next year, the country's coconut shortage would reach 195 million.
These setbacks in the agricultural industry will definitely take its toll on the economic growth as a whole. I intend to meet the officials of international agencies, agricultural officers, farmers and other stake holders in the agricultural sector to decide on the steps that have to be taken to safeguard the industry and the economy as a whole, the Premier said. "The government has taken steps to import rice and other essential items such as coconut kernels. A cabinet sub-committee comprising ministers Patali Champika Ranawaka, Susil Premajayantha and Anura Priyadarshana Yapa was formed to control the cost of living. Control prices have been introduced for rice and the maximum wholesale price of Nadu rice is Rs.65 and the retail price Rs.74, wholesale price of samba is Rs.59 per kg and the retail price Rs.65 while the wholesale price of Kekulu rice is Rs.72 while the retail price is be Rs.78. Rice will be imported by SATHOSA while private traders will also be permitted to import."
He said the import of rice would have to be carried out only up to April 2018 because the situation is expected to improve by then and the challenges faced by the 'private sector-dominated' distribution network would be overcome.
Joint opposition parliamentary group leader Dinesh Gunawardene said the wastage of vegetables is almost 30 per cent and is a result of poor storage facilities. The Prime Minister said storage facilities would be improved. (Yohan Perera and Ajith Siriwardana)
 
		
==============================
## Title: What Tithis foretell for you
## Section: Jyotisha News
## Date: 8 December 2017 12:00 am
What Tithis foretell for you
	
Lunar days and their significance

We in our previous article on the above subject explained what the Lunar calendar and the Lunar Day -Tithi are.
According to Lunar calendar, a day is called Tithi. 28 days plus the New Moon day and the Full Moon day make a lunar month.


Origin of Numerology
Although Numerology is looked on as a separate discipline today, it had been initially an integral part of Astrology in ancient India, Sumer, Babylonia and in several other ancient civilizations. However, it had later developed as a separate subject and it was known as Shabdha Shastra in Ancient India.

Moon and its influence on man
Although the Moon is a satellite of the earth, the ancient Indian seers have reckoned it as one of the nine planets or Navagraha for purposes of Astrological calculations.
In Astrology, the Moon is described as the Queen of the planetary system and as the planet having the greatest influence on man and the terrestrial phenomena.

Rules over human mind
The Moon, according to Astrology rules over the human Mind and is largely responsible for shaping the personality and the character of an individual. The Lunar Day or the Tithi on which a person is born is also responsible for the personality traits, subject, of course, to several other modifying factors.


The personality traits specific to those born on different Lunar days or Tithis are as follows:
Tithi:1 (Pelaviya):Native is a learned person whose main source of income comes from the government. He possesses discerning and discriminating powers. He is very dynamic and proactive and would pursue his goals in life with drive and motivation. He would have several children.
Tithi: 2 (Diyavaka): Native is kind and generous and has a pleasing personality. He is noble in thinking and conduct. He is very prosperous. He enjoys a good reputation.
Tithi 3: (Tiyavaka): Native is very passionate. He takes up residence in a place far away from his native place. He is well educated. He is a good conversationalist. A fear of some lurking danger constantly plagues his mind.
Tithi: 4 (Jalavaka): Native is physically strong and aggressive. He is frugal-minded, but would fall into debt. He has an insatiable craving for sensual pleasures. He is gullible and gets embroiled in law suits. He gains a deep knowledge by reading sacred books. He travels a lot.
Tithi: 5 (Viseniya): Native is lean and tall. He is kind and compassionate towards all living beings. He receives recognition and honours from the state. He is a voracious reader. He is studious and is fond of travelling far and wide.
Tithi: 6 (Sayavaka): Native is true to his word and is respected for his trustworthiness. He is intelligent, wealthy and has several sons. He is not physically strong. He is short-tempered and can be easily provoked.
Tithi: 7 (Satavaka): Native gets more daughters than sons. He holds a high position. He is a lover of arts. He is subject to phlegmatic disease. He observes religious rites with devotion.
Tithi: 8 (Atavaka):Native gains a position of command and authority. He is kind-hearted and is fond of his spouse and children. He would have marital happiness, but would have no mental peace. He is prosperous and would suffer from phlegmatic diseases.
Tithi 9 (Navavaka):Native is intelligent, but would use harsh language. He is not ready to help his relatives. He is very passionate and gets a bad reputation for his bad conduct. He has a strong physique. He is not fortunate enough to get a good wife and good children. However, he would achieve great fame for an unusual achievement.
Tithi 10 (Dasavaka): Native would be learned and religious. He would be generous and courteous. He would have an attractive personality. He would win over people by his oratorical skills. He would be wealthy.
Tithi: 11 (Ekolosvaka):Native is wealthy and religious-minded. He would have servants at his beck and call. He would be righteous in his conduct and would have a clear conscience as he does no wrong to anyone.
Tithi 12 (Dolosvaka): Native is fond of water sports. He is good at maintaining relations with others. He is generous and enjoys giving. His main income comes from the government. He would get a comfortable residence to live in. he would be a scholar of repute.
Tithi: 13: (Telesvaka): Native would be wealthy, bold, clever and chivalrous. He is over-sexy and greedy. He possesses a good personality.
Tithi: 14 (Tudusvaka):Native shows a calm and serene exterior, but he is hot tempered. He would be bold and courageous and would not tolerate others views and would often get involved in arguments. He is very passionate and would have several extra-marital affairs.
Tithi: 15 (Pasalosvaka): Native would bring fame and honour to the family. He is good- hearted and is always cheerful. He would have a supple and attractive physique. He would be fair-minded and compassionate. He would be generous and benevolent.
Tithi: 15 (Amawaka):Native would not have a strong physique. He would have a good temperament and would be kind and considerate. He would look after his parents. He would get a wanderlust  penchant to go round the world visiting interesting places. He would suffer many setbacks and disappointments in life.



We are inviting our readers to send in their issues and questions they have with regard to astrology and palmistry as we are ready to help them and educate them on this age-old scientific art. You can reach us on dailymirrorstars@gmail.com

 
		
==============================
## Title: Why Asians prefer to live with  sexual disorders
## Section: Medicine
## Date: 8 December 2017 12:17 am
Why Asians prefer to live with  sexual disorders
	
Sex, sexuality and sexual disorders have been seldom discussed topics in Asia. Such stigma has given rise to many people refraining from obtaining medical advice in the subject of sexual medicine. In an attempt to break these mythical and social barriers, the South Asian Society for Sexual Medicine (SASSM) held its third Biennial Meeting recently. The event was held under the theme New Frontiers in Sexual Medicine where several experts voiced their concerns. SASSM invited many experts from around the world to address and discuss the most recent information, controversies and how the future would take shape regarding
sexual medicine. 

Sexuality and sexual problems arent openly discussed in Asian countries says Dr. Iyanthi Abeywickrama
Chairperson of the committee Dr. Iyanthi Abeywickrama said that SASSM 2017 is an opportunity for local medical professionals to upgrade their knowledge on sexual medicine. Researchers will present knowledge gained from recent advancements and research on sexual medicine. The forum also provided the delegates an opportunity to network with other professionals in the field. Sessions on surgery and psychological interventions for sexual dysfunctions were conducted. Other items on the agenda included plenary sessions, debates, abstract driven sessions and other discussions on human sexual reproductive functions. Sexuality and sexual problems arent openly discussed in our part of the world due to cultural and other reasons, Dr. Abeywickrama said. 

Limited number of professionals available says Dr. Lasantha Malavige
SASSM 2017 welcomed its newly appointed President Dr. Lasantha Malavige who shed light on certain key issues that are seldom discussed in the field of sexual medicine. Airing his views Dr. Malavige pointed out that both men and women in Sri Lanka and the rest of the South Asian regions, who have sexual problems suffer in silence. In our societies, sexual problems that we hear of are just the tip of the iceberg. Even this proportion of men and women dont seek help because of stigma. Depression, attempted suicide, drug abuse, alcohol abuse, shattered home fronts and even gender-based violence could be precursors to deterred sexual health. When such problems arise, they meet lawyers instead of meeting medical professionals. People in Sri Lanka and the rest of the South Asian region dont seek help and even when they do there are a limited number of professionals available to assist them. Therefore, theres a huge vacuum in the healthcare sector which adds to the magnitude of the problem, said Dr. Malavige. 


Moderate alcohol intake may not be harmful for sexual functions, but once someone becomes addicted to alcohol, they may face various consequences. Alcohol abuse is a major challenge for the health sector in Sri Lanka and India

According to Dr. Malavige, there are many challenges that Sri Lanka and the rest of the South Asian countries face which are connected with sexual medicine. Three main challenges that directly or indirectly affect sexual health were identified. These are: 


Inactive lifestyles, alcohol consumption 
	Internet addiction, cyber-sex and addiction to technology 
	Lack of knowledge and socio-cultural myths


Inactive lifestyles and alcohol consumption
Change in lifestyles has a direct impact on sexual health, said Dr. Malavige stressing on how people engaged in farming back in the day. 12000 years ago people engaged in farming which was 50 times more efficient than hunting and searching for food. The industrial revolution then brought about more changes in lifestyles. With mechanization of industries, vehicles to move around and mechanization of day-to-day activities, people had to adjust to this drastic change. As a result people spend fewer calories during their day-to-day activities and also during work. Despite this reduction of physical activities, our genetic composition hasnt changed much over the past few years. To make things worse we are now exposed to more refined and palatable food items which cause a mismatch between the calorie intake and consumption. This makes us vulnerable to conditions such as obesity, diabetes, hyperlipidemia, hypertension and other conditions. All these are risk factors for poor sexual functions and cardiovascular health for both men and women. This change in lifestyle is especially relevant to people in Sri Lanka and South East Asia because we have a four times higher risk of developing diabetes when compared to Caucasians, explainedDr. Malavige.
He further stated that South Asians have a tendency to develop diabetes at a much younger age. Doctors working in different areas should advice people to engage in active lifestyles. Teenagers could be encouraged to be physically active, so that they wouldnt develop conditions such as diabetes and obesity. A sedentary lifestyle has the potential to destroy their sexual life at a very early age. We need new legislation to promote healthy eating and healthy food habits. Refined foods are good sources of poison. 
Speaking about alcohol and sexual functions, Dr. Malavige pointed out some interesting associations between the two factors. 500 years ago Shakespeare accurately described how alcohol increases sexual desire, but reduces sexual performance. Moderate alcohol intake may not be harmful for sexual functions, but once someone becomes addicted to alcohol, they may face various consequences. Alcohol abuse is a major challenge for the health sector in Sri Lanka and India. Alcohol consumption should be discouraged at national level. Sri Lanka has done really well in controlling smoking. Sleep is an important lifestyle factor that we all need. In terms of sex, lack of sleep can indirectly affect erectile dysfunction in men and sexual arousal in women. According to research it has been proven that irregular sleep patterns are linked to diabetes and mortality. It is easy to prescribe medicine, but lifestyle modifications could be far more challenging,he said.

Unfortunately, the number of people addicted to Internet too is growing. Internet addiction can have a direct impact on the addicts family and his relationships. Large number of addicts isolate themselves from real life situations

Cyber-sex and addiction to technology and internet
Internet and technology is rapidly advancing and people are getting more addicted to these devices. According to Dr. Malavige, the Internet brings about addictive changes and pseudo-intimate personal relationships. Unfortunately, the number of people addicted to Internet too is growing. Internet addiction can have a direct impact on the addicts family and his relationships. Large number of addicts isolate themselves from real life situations. They meet online, but once they meet they dont have that intimacy. Cyber-sex could lead to divorce and far more adverse consequences. Individuals who seek sexual partners online have a higher risk of contracting sexually-transmitted diseases,he warned.

Lack of knowledge and socio-cultural myths
The third challenge lies in the lack of knowledge, socio-cultural myths regarding sexuality, said Dr. Malavige. Colonial attitudes have hugely dominated our societies even after 69 years of Independence. But the West has moved on. Too much negativity towards sexuality, expressions of sexual feelings and enjoyment has left many men and women not having satisfying sex lives. Sex education in schools too is inadequate. In my opinion, age-appropriate sex education has become an urgent need in Sri Lanka and the South Asian region. The younger generation has never been taught what they should know about sexuality, importance of healthy sexual relationships and how to maintain a healthy sex life. Theres much that has to be done in these areas and therefore SASSM will take these challenges seriously and well work with different stakeholders to reach this goal, he said.


500 years ago Shakespeare accurately described how alcohol increases sexual desire, but reduces sexual performance





Common sexual disorders

According to the Diagnostic Statistical Manual, some common sexual disorders include : 

Hypoactive sexual desire disorder 
	Sexual aversion disorder 
	Female sexual arousal disorder 
	Male erectile disorder 
	Female orgasmic disorder 
	Male orgasmic disorder 
	Premature ejaculation 
	Dyspareunia 
	Vaginismus  


 
		
==============================
## Title: A book that answers the most asked question
## Section: News Features
## Date: 8 December 2017 12:00 am
A book that answers the most asked question
	
The suttas in the book What happens after death clearly specify wise reasons as to why beings are born as they are and what happens after death
Ven. Kiribathgoda Gnanananda Thera
As humans, curiosity is a part of our being. Throughout our lives, every one of us will find an urge to know what cant be known, to discover what others havent yet found and to realise the most impossible things before anyone else. One of the questions that we will retain at the back of our minds, for which we might not have found a solution, is What happens after death 
Merits and demerits
Todays world, as with all other seemingly unresolvable problems, has come up with various theories to this question. Many believe that there is a next life and that there is a soul that passes on from this life to another, either to heaven or hell. And some believe that there is no life after death and that after death you simply cease to exist. Buddhism, however, has a completely different outlook on what happens after death. As Buddhists we believe that there is an endless journey of birth and death known as Sansara. We leave one life and move on to the next depending on our Kamma- meaning the merits and demerits collected from either doing wholesome or unwholesome deeds. Beings that have succeeded in doing more wholesome than unwholesome deeds will be able to move onto a birth in a good destination-such as one of the heavenly worlds, or the human world. Beings who have done more unwholesome than wholesome deeds will find themselves being born in one of the bad destinations such as hell or the realm of ghosts. But, those beings that follow the Buddhas path wholeheartedly put an end to the endless journey of birth and death once and for all. 
As ordinary human beings we live our lives as we please. Most people will go to school, and then to university, find employment, get married, raise children and then look after their grandchildren, before eventually passing away. Many will commit unwholesome deeds without a second thought, may it be killing living beings or stating false facts. The vast majority of human beings are unaware of the consequences of what they think or do throughout their lives. Their only focus on life is indulgence in sensual pleasures. What is overlooked is the impermanent nature of these pleasures and happiness. No matter how real it feels and how good it feels as we live in the moment of pleasure the bitter truth is it doesnt last. All that we find comforting will be lost over the period of time, whether it would be over a few years or within a split second, depending on how long we are going to live. What is apparent is most people in the world are ignorant of the truth of impermanence. At the moment of death they fail to let go of things that they held dear to their hearts. According to Buddhism this is the worst way to pass away.
Meditating with a concentrated mind
As humans we should be guided by moral principles. Which is why all Buddhists should try to uphold the five precepts which are abstaining from; killing living beings, stealing, sexual misconduct, telling lies and taking intoxicating drinks and drugs. As Buddhists, we should strive to do as much wholesome deeds as we can. The activities that bring us merits are giving alms (with a pure and generous heart), meditating with a concentrated mind or listening to suttas of the Dhamma and properly understanding their concepts. One of the most important things that the Supreme Buddha taught us to achieve in life is to understand and acknowledge that everything in this life is impermanent and is beyond our control. If we are able to come to terms with this truth regarding impermanence, at the moment of passing away from this life we would be at peace as we would not have so much as a thought to hold onto anything, whether it be a person or an object. 
Letting go of everything once we die means that we dont risk rebirth in the four bad destinations; ghost world, animal world, titans world and hell. Of course, what is the point of clinging onto things we love, when we will have to leave everything once we die anyway And so, it is a focal point for devoted Buddhists. 
All that we find comforting will be lost over the period of time, whether it would be over a few years or within a split second, depending on how long we are going to live
There are great dangers of not practising the Dhamma and taking alternate paths. For example, if a person makes a habit of killing living beings, after death he will be reborn in hell or an animal world and in another birth if he is reborn as a human he would die prematurely. If a person lies often, he too shall be reborn in either hell or in an animal world and if reborn among humans he shall be the victim of false accusations. If a person is a drunkard or drug addict he too risks rebirth in hell or an animal world and if he is reborn as a human he would be mentally retarded. Likewise every unwholesome deed has a consequence in return that not only matches the wrongful doing, but exceeds it as a punishment. For example, if a person were to kill a cow, he would have to pay for his wrongful deed by himself being reborn as a cow on numerous births in the samsaric journey and being slaughtered at the hands of another.
Severe consequences
The suttas in the book What happens after death clearly specify wise reasons as to why beings are born as they are and what happens as a result of previous acts. Let us take the very first sutta as an example- Balapandita sutta (The fool and the wise). In this sutta, we see how to characterise a fool and a wise person. We see the severe consequences that a fool who has committed unwholesome deeds will suffer in hell, as well as the suffering he would face if he or she was born in the animal world, and how rare it would be for them to return to the human world. Let us take the Devaduta sutta (The Divine Messengers) as another example. In this sutta, we see how King Yama of hell questions a being who has done unwholesome deeds about the divine messengers (signs of suffering that we all see throughout our lives that should make us heedful in following the path of the Dhamma to avoid being victims of the same type of suffering).
 
What happens after death is based on the teachings of Gautama Buddha and provides much needed insight to a question that has befuddled us for many years, With the help of the Dhamma, may you all be able to realise the four noble truths and may this book- translated by Ven. Kiribathgoda Gnanananda Thera- help us right our wrongs and lead a virtuous life that brings happiness in this life and the life-after. 
Namo Buddhaya!
 
		
==============================
## Title: Astrology, a medium for reading the Karmic code
## Section: Jyotisha News
## Date: 8 December 2017 12:00 am
Astrology, a medium for reading the Karmic code
	
Is Astrology a science  Part 4
It goes without saying that the subject of Astrology is constituted of two main components or parts, namely Astronomical and Predictive.
The Astronomical part is the framework of Astrology. The Predictive part is the edifice of Astrology. And the foundation on which this edifice has been built is the bedrock of Natures design relating to the correlation between cosmic phenomena and the terrestrial life.

An intelligent design encompassing the universe
Man is an important part of the Natures design, the intelligent design encompassing the entire universe. Wise men in ancient civilizations including rishis or sages in ancient India had discerned, among other things, a definite relationship between a life plan or a destiny pattern of an individual and the configuration of planets at the moment of his birth. The ancient Indian sages in particular had codified the data they had accumulated over the years into a mix of signs, symbols, allegories and postulates. The vast body of data or knowledge thus codified was later decoded and presented in classical works on Astrology in lyrical verse.
Nexus between law of karma and cosmic phenomena
The discovery of the influence of celestial bodies on man and his environment in a physical sense may not have posed a riddle to the ancients. But surely it may have struck them that the finding of the subtle influence that the celestial bodies  planets and stars that operated on man to the extent of shaping the character of an individual and his destiny from birth to death called for a plausible explanation. Did the ancient Indian sages hit upon the Law of Karma while searching for the cause or an explanation for the correlation between the destiny of an individual and the pattern of the celestial map at the time of his birth or did they find a ready explanation in the Law of Karma
There is evidence that the Law of Karma was already in existence as a key fundamental in Hinduism by the time Astrology had evolved into a highly respected discipline in India.

Karma and Rebirth
The Law of Karma and the concept of rebirth are interrelated for it is the Law of Karma that accounts for birth and rebirth. So the ancient seers found a ready explanation for the relationship between the destiny of an individual and the pattern of the configuration of celestial bodies at the time of his birth.

How the Law of Karma operates
It is rather difficult to explain how the Law of Karma operates; much more difficult to explain how a pattern of planets and stars at a given moment could unlock the destiny or the life plan of an individual born at that very moment.

Karmic Code
Karma represents the accumulated result of the cause and effect of our thoughts and deeds which manifests in the present birth and the future births. Therefore, Karma could be likened to a genetic code like the DNA that determines the fortunes and misfortunes in store for a human being. In Hinduism this Karmic Code is referred to as Prarabdha. It is generally described as destiny.
The Karmic Code in relation to the concept of rebirth presupposes the existence of a non-physical entity that carries it from one birth to another. Hinduism calls this this entity the soul while in Buddhism it is generally described as the stream of consciousness. Astrology based on the rules propounded by ancient sages with the knowledge gained through centuries of study relating to the correlation between the pattern of planets and stars and human life is the tool that has enabled deciphering or reading this Karmic Code.


(To be continued)
 
		
==============================
## Title: BOC recognised for economic contribution and sustainability at BCCS Awards 2017
## Section: Financial News
## Date: 8 December 2017 12:27 am
BOC recognised for economic contribution and sustainability at BCCS Awards 2017
	
Bank of Ceylon (BOC) won two awards at Best Corporate Citizen Sustainability Award Ceremony 2017 held recently at Cinnamon Grand, Colombo.
BOC was recognised as the winner of the Triple Bottom Line - Economic Sustainability (Profit) award and also recognized as a category winner  Economic Contribution award. These two awards were awarded to the bank in recognition of its sustainable business growth, economic value creation and contribution towards the national economy.
Organised by the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce (CCC), the event was graced by Japanese Ambassador in Sri Lanka Kenichi Suganuma, as the chief guest. The keynote speaker was David Bent, a global expert on corporate sustainability.
The award ceremony recognizes business entities that have shown exemplary performances as sustainable corporate entities. By recognizing these corporate entities the CCC encourages companies to follow the triple bottom line - People, Profit and Planet - sustainability practices and build a sustainable cycle where the companys long-term sustainability thrives as much as it gives back to the community and every possible stakeholder.
Living up to its promise as Bankers to the Nation, Bank of Ceylon has strategically built its three pillars around its entire scope of operations to reap benefits for all its stakeholders. As a state bank, BOCs objective is to assist the Government of Sri Lankas economic objectives that get translated into the whole countrys socio-economic development. Therefore, the final beneficiaries of this whole process are all Sri Lankans in general.
Currently, BOC is the highest profit-earning single business entity in the country. Its PBT of the year 2015 and 2016 were calculated as Rs.25.3 billion and Rs.31.2 billion, respectively, stated General Manager D.M. Gunasekara.
The bank brought forward the digital-infused transformation that has enabled the bank to reduce operational costs and contribute more towards its main stakeholder, the Government of Sri Lanka. With its ability to reach every economic segment in the country successfully, with the islandwide network of branches and its vast array of products that can genuinely address the needs of these segments, corporate social responsibility is actually an every-day business practice for BOC.
BOC from being a responsible services provider for its customers, whose integrity has been tested over a span of 78 years, the bank has evolved to deliver a service which goes beyond mere banking to its community. BOC has been with Sri Lankans throughout their joys and sorrows with great empathy and helped them to outgrow their shells of socio-economic obstacles and become more economically-able to achieve their individual visions. 
Moving forward, the bank has formulated its comprehensive sustainability policy to address strategic placement of procedures and processes to strengthen the triple bottom line: social, economic and environmental pillars. Strategic corporate social responsibility is embedded into the sustainability policy of the bank.The strategic implementation of digital transformation that commenced in early 2014 gradually replaced many of traditional procedures, policies and technologies and has laid down a solid foundation for the bank to embark on green banking. BOC has been engaged in green initiatives such as paper recycling, e-waste management, installing eco-friendly equipment, installing energy- efficient lighting systems in branches and the head office, maintaining green gardens at selected branches with rain water harvesting systems.
The solar-powered system in selected branches is also a recent addition to the banks green banking process. Engaging the society to walk along with this noble initiative, the bank planted 100,000 trees in line with the banks 75th anniversary in 2014 gathering school children and public from all over the country.
The banks Kilinochchi branch was endorsed as a green branch recently as it was designed to have a solar energy system and utilizes space and architectural design to obtain more natural light and air, vertical green garden to keep the interior cool, rain water harvesting system and a SmartZone for digital banking.
So far, the bank has established solar power renewable energy systems at 20 branches, including the Thissamaharama and Kekirawa branches. BOC was also recognized as the highest financial assistance provider for solar power technology, at the ceremony held to mark the generation of 100 megawatts through renewable energy organised by the Power and Energy Ministry.
By increasing its CDM/ATM network to reach over 900 machines throughout the country, encouraging customers to enrol with online banking, introducing no passbook SmartGen account option, workflow automation and document management systems, BOC has not only promoted green banking but also promoted sustainable and inclusive economic growth.
For BOC, improving social and economic well-being is an integral part of its core operations. In this regard, the bank ensures that it follows ethical guidelines to sustain customer relationships. Whilst providing a dedicated banking service to its community, BOC looks into the sustainability of its customers business as well.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Bomb threat on flight: Sri Lankan pleads guilty
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 8 December 2017 06:30 pm
Bomb threat on flight: Sri Lankan pleads guilty
	
A Sri Lankan man who threatened to set off a bomb onboard a flight from Melbourne is facing a maximum 20 years' jail after pleading guilty to attempting to take control of an aircraft, the ABC News reported today.
Manodh Marks, 25, forced Malaysia Airlines flight MH128 to Kuala Lumpur to turn back shortly after take-off when he tried to enter the cockpit while screaming that he had a bomb.
The catering student was overpowered by passengers who tied him up with belts until the flight landed at Melbourne Airport in June.
Police were criticised for taking up to 90 minutes to board the plane and remove Mr Marks, who had in fact been holding what officers described as a "speaker-type" object.
He was initially charged with multiple offences, some of which carried a maximum penalty of life imprisonment.
But prosecutors dropped a number of charges, leaving Mr Marks to plead guilty in the Melbourne Magistrates' Court to a single charge of attempting to take control of an aircraft.
It carries a maximum penalty of 20 years' jail.
The court was told Mr Marks, who had been living at Dandenong in Melbourne's south-east, has a psychiatric illness.
He has been remanded in custody to face a plea hearing at the County Court in April.
 
		
==============================
## Title: CC submits names of seven nominees for OMP to President
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 8 December 2017 11:25 pm
CC submits names of seven nominees for OMP to President
	
The Constitutional Council (CC) has selected the seven members to be appointed to the Office for Missing Persons (OMP) by President Maithripala Sirisena in keeping with the law.
However, CC member and JVP MP Vijitha Herath has reportedly registered his protest over the nomination of Women's rights activist Nimalka Fernando as a member of the OMP, a body mandated to investigate cases related to those who disappeared during the war.
A source said there were more than 100 applicants seeking to be members of the OMP from whom the seven were selected, and their names had been sent to the President for approval.
The OMP, instituted under a Parliamentary Act has fulfilled the assurance given to the United Nations Human Rights Council by the Sri Lankan Government.
United Nations Secretary General Antnio Guterres congratulated the Government for setting up the OMP stating, it is an important step for all Sri Lankans who are still looking for the truth about their loved ones. (Kelum Bandara)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Changing risk climate in banks
## Section: Financial News
## Date: 8 December 2017 12:28 am
Changing risk climate in banks
	
Innovations, diversification and the entry of integrated technology have transformed the landscape of banking world over. So is the case in Sri Lanka. Due to the increased competition, banks have been striving hard to adapt best practices in banking both in product diversification and dispensing quality of service.
Focus on globalization; cross boarder exchange of banking products and services with supportive state-of-the-art technology has added new dimensions in banking. Government-owned and private banks are coexisting competing with each other. It leads to better quality of services. The bank customers, who were earlier glued to the local formative system of manual banking, have begun to experience the merits of modern online banking infrastructure.
Providing more convenience at click of mouse and the debut of hybrid products have brought change. Building flexibility in assets and liability products is the need of the hour to stay competitive in markets. The new generation of bank customers demand more liquidity and ease in accessing banking services. Non-funded banking products too are becoming more flexible and borrower friendly with added features. In the whole process, banks are becoming more sensitive to customer needs.
The social transformation is also pointing towards greater need to satisfy customer comfort, convenience and lifestyle upgradation that calls for financing individuals apart from lending to productive sectors of the economy. Globally consumer financing has picked up pace and Asia too has fallen in line with the new tilt towards financing lifestyle needs.
Banks traditionally known to finance productive sectors with robust security find a different enterprise in evolving products for individual needs. Every such change invites differentiated risks for banks and financial intermediaries. Banks have to plan to cope with the emerging risks.
Rising risk sensitivity in banks
Such new-age banking with focus on diversification of banking products and services akin to international standards is sure to bring with it corresponding risks. The integrated set of risks inherent in the innovative range of products and services needs to be better managed at the grass root level. The rules of risk management have to be well perceived in the current context and gradually rewritten.
Financial risk is in the transient stage everywhere in the financial world. The regulators and banks are constantly engaged in calibrating risk mitigation strategies to meet the impending higher uncertainty and volatile markets. For example, when a bank invests in corporate bonds bearing different ratings, the chances of risk of defaults will also be different.
Banks need to learn the nuances of precisely reading inherent risks in the basket of business to be able to manage it effectively. When a bank obtains deposits from public and promises to return it with interest, the deployment of these resources, as far as possible, should be able to provide better risk adjusted return compared to its cost to eventually remain sustainable in the long run.
Perceiving changing risks
Therefore, perceiving the nuances of risks in business, the deployment strategies have to be so carefully aligned as to satisfy the stakeholder value on a durable basis. But in business situations there can be hardly any risk-free application of funds.
Moreover, with technology connecting the universe of financial system, the risks seamlessly transcend national boundaries exacerbating the degree of risks with which, banks may not be familiar. It is essential that more than looking at the existing business and risks, banks should be sensitive towards incremental rise in business and its inherent risk component to gauze its impact on the banks fundamentals.
While the business risk in banking is crossing boarders threatening the risk adjusted returns and profitability, the customer aspirations too are undergoing transformation, which cannot be unnoticed. Banks exist with customers and they need to be served with compatible products and services. In such a challenging operating environment, banks have to balance risk and yields to ensure profitability of business net of risk. In the process, line management of banks have to be more risk sensitive to be able to identify, measure and mitigate the different kinds of risks.
Rapid diversification poses more risks
Due to the shift in the demographic profile of nations, more youngsters are entering the customer base. As a result, the customer needs are tech savvy, needing increased efficiency levels to serve them. In order to expand business, banks are focusing more on marketing products and services aligned to different customer segments.
Moreover, banks hitherto operating in sellers market have moved to buyers market. Banks used to offer what is in their basket of products and services. But now banks are required to align their range of products and services to suit the new requirement of customers. In such fast transforming milieu, the governments and central banks too have been persuading banks to expand the customer base by pursuing inclusive banking. Banks are also required to diversify and move from urban mindset to include rural mindset in increasing penetration of banking services in the hinterland calling for change in risk perceptions.
Change of target customers and change of geographies also can sometimes increase the risk sensitivity. Unless the digital literacy and financial literacy of customers are made compatible, even any ignorance on the part of customers in using technology-led products and services can land banks into greater risk.
The onus of banks therefore is to educate its customers on the usage of technology-led delivery channels such as ATMs, Internet banking, mobile banking, debit/credit cards, point of sale (POS) terminals and many more gadgets now used by banks as alternate delivery channels. Each mode of such service brings with it some attendant risks to be managed by the banks.
If customers do not realize the sanctity of passwords and it is compromised, banks land into more operational risk. Customers can always claim that all consequences of password protection have not been clearly explained and it led to loss. In order to protect customer interest, even central banks call upon banks to make good the loss, sometimes even when the lapse is on the part of customers.
Banks should be more sensitive towards changing the risk profile when there is change in target group of customers and geographical coverage. Banks need to put all checks and balances in place to protect customer interest and at the same time be able to manage the risk.
Transition increases risks
Moreover, in such a fast transforming banking landscape and changing government and central bank priorities, banks may have to traverse a different growth path that may trigger new kinds of risks. Customers having experienced the change in the level of computerization have begun to demand more convenience and quality of customer service akin to the global standards. Thus, across the globe, integrated technology and centralization of data has brought disruptive banking.
Anywhere banking any time banking proliferation of self-service banking kiosks round the clock banking are some of the features of the new-age banking. The onset of integrated universal ATMs, cash accepting machines, cheque deposit machines, centralized cheque clearances, centralization of call centres and many more such technology aided innovations in the design of banking structure.
Move toward digital business model led to centralization of transaction data at a central hub. In order to better manage banking risks, dissemination of risk sensitivity and a deeper understanding of risk repercussions by the line management will be essential.

(Dr. K. Srinivasa Rao is Director of National Institute of Banking Studies and Corporate Management (NIBSCOM), Noida, India. The views are his own)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Crowds flock to Wattala Church to witness 'miraculous' sight
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 8 December 2017 08:35 am
Crowds flock to Wattala Church to witness 'miraculous' sight
	
Excited Catholics and many others were seen rushing into St. Annes Church in Wattala to get a glimpse of a picture of Jesus Christ, where droplets of sweat were seen emerging from the forehead of the image of the blessed Saviour in what seemed to be a modern day miracle.
Parish Priest of St. Annes Church, Wattala, Rev. Fr. Sanjeev Mendis, said the watery droplets similar to that of sweat had been flowing from the picture since October this year. The picture was brought to Sri Lanka by a group of priests who came here 12 years ago from Chalakkudi in India. The priests had distributed several pictures to the Catholics of the area who had attended the prayer sessions. However the
tear-like droplets had been flowing from one picture which was kept in the house of a woman named Niromi Amarasinghe, Fr. Mendis said. He said the picture was brought to the church after the supernatural occurrence continued.
Niromi said she had witnessed the droplets coming from the forehead of the picture of Christ from time to time. I noticed the changes and showed it to my mother as well and then we decided to inform the parish priest about it. We were advised to bring the picture to the church for it to be examined, she said.
We had family problems for some time and these subsided since the miracle began. I have experienced some strange feelings which are hard to explain ever since this miracle began. I feel that Christ is alive, she added.
However, Fr. Mendis said it is difficult to make any conclusion at the movement. There may be a scientific explanation for it but I dont know how anyone could prove it, Fr. Mendis said. (Yohan Perera)
Pix by Pradeep Dilrukshana
 
		
==============================
## Title: DFCC Banks Vardhana Virtual Wallet offers seasonal discounts up to 60%
## Section: Financial News
## Date: 8 December 2017 12:30 am
DFCC Banks Vardhana Virtual Wallet offers seasonal discounts up to 60%
	
The Christmas season just got a whole lot more interesting with an exciting seasonal offer from DFCC Bank. The Vardhana Virtual Wallet customers can avail of steep discounts up to 60 percent at popular merchants encompassing online, clothing, restaurants, supermarket, taxi service and fresh seafood stores.
Its quite easily the biggest deals to enhance the festive mood this Christmas season, which will be from December 1 to 31, 2017. The Virtual Wallet is offering discounts of 60 percent at Tash, Laugfs supermarkets, Cotton Collection, Max Mara, Divine and Sandwich Factory.
Customers can avail of a 50 percent discount with Kangaroo Cabs and 40 percent discount at Takas.lk, Mydeal.lk, Oceansbestlk.com and Direct2Door.lk.
From purchasing groceries, electronics and seafood online, to dressing up smartly, being chauffer driven to enjoying supermarketing and delectable cakes and sandwiches, the Virtual Wallet Christmas promotion covers all the imaginable needs for its customers.
Commenting on the Christmas season offers, DFCC Bank CEO Lakshman Silva said, The Christmas season is a special time of the year for families and friends to exchange gifts and make unforgettable memories. The Virtual Wallet is offering amazing discounts to live it up this season and to enjoy the amazing savings by shopping at any of the merchant outlets participating in this promotion. No one can afford to miss out on this seasons most generous discount offers. Whats more, you do not need to be a bank account holder of DFCC to apply for a Virtual Wallet.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Dinesh wants MR's security strengthened
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 8 December 2017 04:42 pm
Dinesh wants MR's security strengthened
	
Joint opposition MP Dinesh Gunawardane today requested Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe to strengthen former president Mahinda Rajapaksa's security considering the security threat to his life when participating at JO election rallies for the LG elections.
He told parliament that the security forces were finding it difficult to prevent people from entering high security zones and maintaining no-go areas at the rallies which would be attended by Mr. Rajapaksa.
The MP said the government and the security forces should understand this situation and take steps to provide an higher level of security with more back-up vehicles.
The Prime Minister said security had been provided to former presidents Rajapaksa and Chandrika Kumaratunge based on threat assessment reports submitted by the intelligence units.
He said Mr. Rajapaksa's security detail consisted of 154 security personnel including an ASP, a Chief Inspector, nine IPs, 14 SIs and 31 police sergeants.
The Prime Minister said Ms. Kumaratunge had been provided with only 61 security personnel while Mr. Rajapaksa had been provided with more security after considering the threat assessment on his life.
He said no formal request had been made to the Law and Order Ministry regarding his security and it could be considered if such a request was made.
The MP said it would be important if the previously reduced security detail would be restored during the election period. (Ajith Siriwardana and Yohan Perera)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Experienced that tightening  chest pain
## Section: Medicine
## Date: 8 December 2017 12:04 am
Experienced that tightening  chest pain
	
Angina and Ischemia

Angina and Ischemia are two common terms we often come across in the specialized branch of medicine known as Cardiology-study of heart. However, people use these terms interchangeably during many instances due to a lack of clear knowledge about what they refer to. 

From this article we are going to identify what each condition is and how they differ fromone another.
Angina is a symptom which is defined as a chest pain, occurring due to the lack of blood supply to the heart muscles. It usually follows a hardening or narrowing of the coronary arteries which are responsible in maintaining the perfusion of heart muscle. 
Blood supply to the heart is mainly done by two large arteries known as coronary arteries. In patients with long term dyslipidemia, cholesterol and fatty deposits can get accumulated on arterial walls by the process known as atherosclerosis. 

Symptoms
This pain is usually described as a heavy discomfort, dullness or tightness in the chest which could sometimes radiate along the left arm, neck, jaw or back. Some individuals can also present with,

Shortness of breath 
	Nausea 
	Fatigue and dizziness 
	Restlessness 
Sometimes there can only be one or few of the above symptoms without any associated chest pain.

Angina can get triggered by strenuous activities or emotional disturbances like stress and typically lasts only for a few minutes. 
There are two sub categories of angina known as stable and unstable angina. 
Stable Angina- Exacerbates on strenuous physical activity, emotional stress and less commonly followed by heavy meals or exposure to cold weather. Associated symptoms usually improves after few minutes on rest. 
Unstable Angina- This is the most unpredictable form of angina which can develop without any obvious trigger, even during rest. An episode will last longer than that of a stable angina and doesnt respond to stable angina treatments. 

Ischemia
Ischemia is defined as the pathology which is caused by a reduction of blood and oxygen supply to a certain area in the body. When this occurs in the cardiac muscle, it can result in what is known as Myocardial infarction, where the blood supply is cut off until the cardiac muscle dies in an irreversible manner. 
Ischemia, itself is not a life threatening condition unless it causes the above mentioned Myocardial infarction. 
Most patients who are prone to get ischemia are suffering from underlying diseases like atherosclerosis where the heart muscle can compensate the inadequate blood supply at rest. But if an exertion occurs following physical activity it will no longer be able to function properly, giving rise to a permanent muscle death. 
Chronic Ischemia- When coronary arteries get weakened beyond a certain limit, the heart muscle tends to receive a lesser blood supply even during rest. This is quite dangerous resulting in a progressive heart damage. 



Summary


Angina is a symptom which refers to a severe tightening chest pain which can radiate to jaw, neck and along the arm. This is specifically associated with a pathology of heart. 
	Ischemia is a type of heart pathology defined as a temporary loss of blood perfusion to the heart muscle, which may give rise to an Angina. Untreated ischemia could result in a myocardial infarction if the heart muscle dies following this cut down of blood supply.  
==============================
## Title: Hambantota Port: Two Gazettes to grant tax concessions passed
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 8 December 2017 08:40 pm
Hambantota Port: Two Gazettes to grant tax concessions passed
	
Two gazette notifications under the Strategic Development Projets Act to grant tax concessions to two Chinese companies to develop the Hambantota Port on a Public Private Partnership was passed in Parliament today with a majority of 65 votes.
Seventy two MPs voted in favour while seven parliamentarians voted against including five JVP MPs and two joint opposition MPs.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Heated argument ensues between Judge and Defence Counsel
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 8 December 2017 06:22 am
Heated argument ensues between Judge and Defence Counsel
	
A heated argument ensued between Counsel Maithri Gunaratne and High Court Judge A.A.R. Heiyantuduwa after court ordered to adjourn the consideration of the revision bail applications filed on behalf of former Navy spokesman Commander D.K.P. Dasanayake and five others, who are currently in remand custody over the alleged disappearances of 11 youths in 2008.
The revision bail applications were yesterday supposed to be taken up in Colombo High Court Number 1, where Colombo Chief High Court Judge Manilal Waidyathilake was presiding.
However, Colombo High Court Judge A.A.R. Heiyantuduwa, who was taking the chair at Court number 2, came up to take over the previously scheduled 57 cases at Court number 1 in the absence of Chief High Court Judge Manilal Waidyathilake.
When the revision application of D.KP. Dasanayake was taken up for consideration; Counsel Maithri Gunaratne who appeared on behalf of Navy Commander Dassanayake began to make his submission. However, Judge Heiyantuduwa said he would postpone the case as the permanent judge was absent.
The High Court number 1 Mudliyar (interpreter) then saying the nearest date that could be provided was in the second week of January and subsequently, the Judge went on to postpone the case till January.
At this moment, a heated argument ensued as Counsel Gunaratne did not accept the stance of the Judge to postpone the case till January and asked for a much earlier date in late December.
Criticizing the attitude and the manner in which the Judge had decided to postpone the case, Counsel Gunaratne in a high tone reprimanded the Judge that it was a total injustice to the fundamental rights of citizens in the country.
Judge Heiyantuduwa also hit back saying he could not accommodate the request as there was no date available in the month of December.
However, after the heated argument, the Counsel left the Court room criticizing the Judge and within a few minutes he came back into the court room.
At this moment, Judge Heiyantuduwa asked Counsel Gunaratne and Senior State Counsel Janaka Bandara to make relevant submissions for the record regarding the adjournment of the consideration of revision applications.
Counsel Gunaratne said that it was the second time that the consideration of the revision application was postponed and therefore he requested the court to call the case before the permanent Judge prior to the star of December court vacation.
Speaking on the behaviour of Counsel Gunaratene, Senior State Counsel Janaka Bandara said in the previous date when the matter was taken up for consideration the permanent Judge was in hospital and yesterday it was said that the Judge was not on duty due to a personal reason.
SSC Janaka Bandara also commenting on the magisterial inquiry against the suspect said it was not an ordinary allegation but an investigation about the disappearances of eleven youths who were not even LTTE supporters.
We are mindful of the fact about people who had served the nation, but that does not mean that they received licenses to abduct innocent people to demand ransom. Investigations are still going on and much revealing evidence is being filed into this inquiry. So it is not appropriate that counsel Gunaratne behave shouting at the Judge like a bull in a fish market
Subsequently, Judge Heiyantuduwa was also of the view that he had not engaged in an inappropriate manner or caused injustice to citizens as it was not his duty to consider the matters in High Court number 1 and that he went on to postpone the case because there were no dates available in December according to the interpreter at Court number 1.
However, the other Counsel appearing for the rest of the five suspects did not object to the adjournment of the cases and thereby, all revision applications were postponed for January 9, 2018.
Suspects, D.K.P. Dassanayake, Sumith Ranasinghe, Lakshman Udayakumara, Naleen Prasanna, Ihalagedara Dharmadasa and Pathiranage Dasanayake, who were in remand custody had filed revision bail applications in High Court, while suspect Prasad Hettiarachchi is evading the Magisterial inquiry and suspect Sampath Munasinghe is on bail. (Shehan Chamika Silva)
 
		
==============================
## Title: IMF approves US$ 251.4 mn to Lanka
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 8 December 2017 02:41 am
IMF approves US$ 251.4 mn to Lanka
	
The IMF Executive Board completed the third review of Sri Lankas Extended Fund Facility arrangement on Wednesday (6), enabling the disbursement of US$ 251.4 million to the country.
In a statement yesterday, the IMF said the Executive Board completed the third review of Sri Lankas economic performance under the programme supported by a three-year extended arrangement under the Extended Fund Facility (EFF) arrangement. Completion of the review enables the disbursement of the equivalent of approximately US$ 251.4 million, bringing the total disbursements under the arrangement to the equivalent of approx. US$ 759.9 million, it said.
Sri Lankas three-year extended arrangement was approved on June 3, 2016, in the amount of about US$1.45 billion or 185 per cent of quota in the IMF at the time of approval of the arrangement.
The statement said Sri Lanka governments reform programme, supported by the IMF, aims to reduce the fiscal deficit, rebuild foreign exchange reserves and introduce a simpler, more equitable tax system to restore macroeconomic stability and promote inclusive growth.
Following the IMF Executive Boards discussion of the review, Mr. Mitsuhiro Furusawa, Acting Chair and Deputy Managing Director said Sri Lankas performance under the Fund-supported programme has remained broadly on track since the second review.
Macroeconomic and financial conditions have been stable, despite a series of weather-related supply shocks. The authorities remain committed to the economic reforms under the programme and have undertaken measures to improve government revenue and accumulate international reserves. Going forward, it is important to build on the progress made and accelerate reforms to further reduce fiscal and external vulnerabilities, he said.
Fiscal performance has been satisfactory and all targets until September were met. The new Inland Revenue (IR) Act will make the tax system more efficient and equitable, and generate resources for social and development programs. Nevertheless, Sri Lankas high debt burden, large gross financing needs, and weak financial performance of state-owned enterprises increases the importance of further fiscal consolidation. Timely progress in structural reforms, including tax administration and energy pricing, will support fiscal consolidation, he said.
He also said the inflation and credit growth remain on the high side and maintaining a tightening bias for monetary policy is recommended until clear signs emerge that inflation pressures and credit expansion have subsided.
Macroprudential tools should also be used to help rein in credit growth and head off systemic risks. While financial soundness indicators remain stable, financial sector supervision and the AML/CFT regime should be further strengthened, he said.
Mr. Furusawa said along with efforts to deepen the foreign exchange market, it is important to further accumulate reserves and enhance exchange rate flexibility to reduce Sri Lankas external vulnerability. Structural reforms are also needed to enhance competitiveness and promote inclusive growth, including measures to improve trade and investment regimes, he said.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Mobitels mCash celebrates 4th anniversary
## Section: Financial News
## Date: 8 December 2017 12:31 am
Mobitels mCash celebrates 4th anniversary
	
Sri Lankas premier mobile financial services platform, mCash, celebrated its fourth glorious anniversary recently.
Within this short period, mCash has grown by leaps and bounds, extending a remarkable service by redefining the way people transact by deploying the mobile phone as a financial tool.
mCash boasts a growing loyal customer base of over one million customers today. Their lives have been enhanced immeasurably by the mCash financial solutions, which are firsts in the country, at their fingertips.
mCash has redefined the way the consumers carry out transactions with the use of a mobile phone. mCash has progressed rapidly expanding into new domains, creating into new markets and meeting the objective of financial inclusion in the Sri Lankan market.
It is also the fastest, most secure and convenient method to transact money, settle utility bills and purchase goods and services via a mobile phone through an established partner network. The mCash retailer network has swelled to 16,000 plus while the mCash merchant network has expanded to over 1000 islandwide.
mCash empowers customers to conduct numerous financial transactions from their mobile phones, such as deposits, withdrawing, transferring money, paying utility and institute bills, paying for shopping, online payments, making charitable donations and robust business-to-business (B2B) business solutions.
mCash also supports other mobile operators to be part of mCash by partnering with Etisalat. Any Mobitel or Etisalat customer could simply get onboard mCash free of charge by dialling #111# from the mobile.
The mCash mobile app has also further made mCash transactions more user-friendly. The customers could download it from Apple App Store, Google Play Store and Windows Mobile Store.
Most recently, mCash achieved a milestone of launching bank deposits via mCash by partnering with NSB to launch NSB iSaver service, allowing any Sri Lankan to save digitally by simply visiting 16,000+ mCash retailers islandwide.
Cardless ATMs were launched with Commercial Bank for the first time in Sri Lanka to allow cardless cash withdrawals for mCash customers. Moreover, scheduling payments has become much easier with mCash Standing Orders, which was launched for the first time in Sri Lanka on a mobile platform.
Furthermore, mCash B2B solutions serve many industries via the mCash platform, such as banking, insurance, finance and travel. mCash is popular for unbeatable offers during Valentines, Avurudu and Christmas seasons to enhance the festive spirit.
Customers can even top up their mCash account digitally using Internet and mobile banking platforms of leading banks. Most recently, mCash was awarded the Online Brand of the Year Silver Award at Slim Brand Excellence Awards 2017.
Approved by the Central Bank of Sri Lanka, since its launch, mCash has proved to be a useful supplementary method to transfer money that is fast, user-friendly and provides a host of special offers to customers. Conceptualized by the national mobile service provider, Mobitel, mCash is revolutionizing the countrys electronic payments landscape while extending financial inclusion.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Play Expo 2017
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 8 December 2017 08:31 pm
Play Expo 2017
	
Play Expo 2017, organized by the Gamer LK in collaboration with the Prove Comics and Information and Communication Technology Agency (ICTA) was launched at the Sri Lanka Exhibition & Convention Centre (SLECC) Colombo in December 8, and will be continued till 10 December. Pix by Kithsiri De Mel


 
		
==============================
## Title: Police security at Railway Stations
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 8 December 2017 02:30 pm
Police security at Railway Stations
	
The Police said they would provide security to trains, railway stations, the staff and the commuters from today in the wake of the work stoppage by railway trade unions.
They said they had taken this decision so as to provide an uninterrupted railway service for the people.
The Police Chief Pujith Jayasundara has directed all Senior DIGs and DIGs to monitor the situation. (KJ)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Railway strike continues
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 8 December 2017 09:50 pm
Railway strike continues
	
The work stoppage by the Railway Trade Union Alliance (RTUA) is continuing in the absence of any signs of this matter being resolved.
A spokesman said they had launched a work stoppage from Thursday midnight because of the failure by the authorities to accept the Cabinet paper approved by the Prime Minister's Secretary.
The strike action was a success. Several trains had operated on Thursday, but not after midnight. No higher authority has responded, therefore we will continue the strike today, he said. (Chaturanga Pradeep and Kalathma Jayawardhane)

 
		
==============================