## Title: Budget 2016
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Saturday, November 21, 2015 - 01:00

Budget 2016

Excerpts from the budget speech made by Finance Minister Ravi Karunanayake yesterday.
Encouraging Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises
Speaker, the importance of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in our economy is underpinned by the role it plays in the creation of employment, addressing the issues of income distribution, regional development and social cohesion. Today MSME sector is a key component of our economic strategy. The thrust areas that has a huge potential in this economy are furniture, IT, dairy industry, horticulture, floriculture, food industry, fruit and vegetable, inland fishing, beauty culture, ornamental fish and etc.
Yet in spite of the significant contribution to the economy, MSME’s find expansion difficult, mainly due to the obstacles they face in accessing funding, both equity and debt.
As announced by the Prime Minister in his policy statement on the 5 November 2015, we will also be establishing an advisory committee to study the issues faced by Small and Medium Enterprises (SME) sector and our future action in the SME sector will be guided by their recommendations.
Venture Capital
Honourable Speaker, today the most common mode of funding available for the SME's is debt financing for which collateral is a must. However, since the business start-ups with great ideas lack tangible assets to be utilized as collateral, I propose to initiate a venture capital approach for providing equity financing facilities to SMEs through the establishment of one fund that will be a “Fund of Funds”. This will comprising of stakeholders such as Banks, Insurance Companies, State-Owned funds such as EPF, ETF and foreign funds. I would like to invite the International Finance Corporation (IFC) and Asian Development Bank (ADB) to contribute to the Fund and while encouraging the private sector conglomerates too to be part of this initiative. The Fund will lend to responsible Venture Capital firms for a guaranteed minimum rate of return, and the Venture Capital Firms will make equity investments in the SMEs. In addition to the equity investments, these firms will provide the SME's with the most required advisory services, including financial planning, information technology, marketing strategies, etc. and ensure the growth of the SMEs to gain healthy long term returns. In order to promote this initiative, I propose to reduce the applicable Corporate Income Tax by 50 percent for Venture Capital Firms for a period of 5 years. This will commence by 1 April, 2016.
Incubators Assisting MSMEs
I propose to construct mini industrial parks which will be incubators in Moneragala, Puttalam, Jaffna/Vanni, and Ampara. I encourage the private sector also to join in this endeavor. In order to promote such investment in designated areas, then applicable tax rate, will be reduced by 50 percent for a period of 03 years from the year in which the profit is generated. I propose to allocate Rs. 150 million for this purpose.
urther, I understand that the SME’s have an issue in marketing their products. Given the lack of funds at SMEs for engaging in marketing and advertising activities, their products do not get displayed prominently at Super markets and shops. Therefore, I urge the large super markets and retail sellers to lend a hand to the SME’s by providing them with some prominent shelf space at a reasonable price.
Agriculture
Agriculture is the corner stone of our economy, our social fabric and our history. However, the statistics depict a different story. Our agricultural imports are around USD 1,000 million and our farmers remain to be a segment most vulnerable in the society battered by ever changing weather patterns, exploited by the middlemen and constantly locked in a battle to get a reasonable price for their produce. Our consumers also get a raw deal with substandard produce often at exorbitant prices. Hence, we recognize the urgent necessity for a reversal of this vicious trend. An out of the box thinking is the need of the hour. It is in this context, our government led by His Excellency, the President and the Prime Minister, have focused their attention on formulating a new agricultural policy. Our policy is anchored on the requirement to make the country self-sufficient in maize, soya beans, chilies, onions, and potatoes by 2018 through crop diversification and productivity improvements and graduate into an agri-business from subsistence economy whereby we will access export markets by 2020.
Investment to Agriculture especially into productivity improvement is a crying need. To this end, availability of quality seeds plays an important role in ensuring better productivity.
As such, to encourage greater collaboration between the private sector and government to produce high quality seeds, unutilized state land would be allocated as an incentive. Therefore, I propose to allocate a sum of Rs.1,000 million for this purpose.
Half tax holidays will be granted to companies that use drip irrigation methods, greenhouse technology and endeavor to introduce high yielding seeds. At the same time, having recognized the importance of mechanization in productivity improvement, I also propose to remove the import duties pertaining to import of agriculture machinery and equipment.
Considering the cost of production to the farmer and also considering the impact to the consumer, I propose to give a guaranteed price of Rs. 50/kg for Keeri Samba, Rs.41/kg for Samba and Rs.38/Kg for Nadu and other varieties. This would help the consumer to get rice at Rs. 65/kg on average.
The country’s rice production has increased. We will be utilizing these stocks to be distributed amongst the Samurdhi recipients who are relatively more susceptible to malnutrition. Thus this proposed scheme will improve their nutrient levels. For this purpose we will be utilizing around 44,000 metric tons of rice.
I believe it is time we export our rice and as such we also encourage the farmers to produce rice varieties that could access export markets. As such, I encourage the Export Development Board to find markets and engage in a branding exercise of Sri Lankan rice.
The issue that we face today is critical in deciding on the future of our agriculture policy? Studies also note that there’s no direct positive correlation between the use of fertilizer and productivity in paddy. In spite of the support given to paddy farmers, they remain an exploited segment of our society.
I propose to provide the existing fertilizer subsidy scheme to small scale paddy farmers. A cash grant of Rs. 25,000 covering the production year, Yala and Maha, will be provided to farmers for a maximum extent of 1 hectare.
This will allow the farmer greater flexibility in selecting his farming inputs and I am confident that this will increase productivity. For this purpose I have allocated Rs.37,500 million, which is an increase over Rs.35,000 million provided in 2015.
Fruit and Vegetable Industry
The commercial fruit and vegetable industry are still not developed adequately to be able to exploit the opportunities that exist in the domestic and international markets.
The dehydrated and canned fruit industry is still in its infancy stages and remain underdeveloped. In a bid to boost this industry, it is proposed to extend interest support on 50 percent of the interest on loans to be taken from Banks by individuals or companies who enter this industry.
Machinery utilized for this purpose will also be allowed to import free from duties and a qualifying payment deduction will be available in addition to depreciation.
Dairy Industry
The market share of the domestic milk industry is minimal. We acknowledge previous government's efforts directed towards enhancing local milk production and to dissuade importation of milk products. Government policy too is to encourage domestic milk producers to increase the production.
As such, I propose to reduce the maximum retail price of a 400g domestically manufactured powdered milk packet to Rs.295 from the existing price of Rs.325. The government will provide the domestic manufacturers with a subsidy of Rs.30 per 400 g packet sold for which I propose to allocate a sum of Rs.1,000 million. This will have the dual impact of helping local producers as well as reducing cost of living.
The country’s dairy sector contribution to the economy is very nominal but it has immense potential to grow. As such, to encourage commercial scale dairy farming on a Public Private Partnership (PPP)
arrangement, underutilized or unutilized government land will be provided for a minimum level of investment of Rs 25 million. I would also like to propose to enter into PPP arrangements for such government land that is unutilized or underutilized to grow high yielding grass on an out grower basis. I propose to grant upfront depreciation on the machinery and a reduction of import taxes on machinery and equipment related to the dairy industry.
Since liquid milk consumption has still not gained momentum in the country, I propose to entrust the Ministry of Upcountry New Villages, Estate Infrastructure and Community Development and the Ministry of Health, Nutrition and Indigenous Medicine to undertake a massive campaign to promote liquid milk consumption in the country.
Fisheries
I regret to note that in spite of the country being an Island, we still import almost USD 150 million worth of fish and fish related products annually. Our local fishermen remain vulnerable to price fluctuations mainly due to seasonality and lack of storage facilities, changes in the regulatory framework and little access to finance and new markets in expanding their businesses.
In keeping with the government's commitment of providing social safety network to fishermen from vulnerabilities and endemic to their work, we will introduce a life insurance cover of Rs.1 million for the fishermen who meet with accidents when at sea. This insurance scheme will also cover the expenses incurred in the search and rescue operations.
Approximately Rs. 5,000 million worth of canned fish has been imported to the country annually on average in the last 5 years. Given the potential in the industry, I encourage the private sector to engage in fish canning. To incentivize this industry, I propose to implement a buy back mechanism through Lak Sathosa Ltd., which would be sold at a concessional price of Rs. 125 each. This will help reduce cost of living. I propose to llocate a sum of Rs. 300 million to Lak Sathosa.
Moreover, to protect the local fisheries industry, I propose to increase the Special Commodity Levy (SCL) on the import of fish to Rs. 50/-. Further, import duty on fishing nets will also be reduced.
To facilitate the fisheries industry, I propose to develop and upgrade local fishery harbours with state of the art technology to include cold storages as well. I also propose to allocate further Rs. 750 million for the development of Fisheries Harbours in Chilaw, Mirissa, Kalmunai, Valvettithurai, Karai Nagar and Puranawella. These harbours will also facilitate repair and manufacturing of boats as well.
It is proposed to create agro and fish processing facilities in geographical locations close to the farm gate.
This will be cost effective as facilities can be shared. Thus it is proposed to create an Agro Livestock and Fish Processing Park connecting the districts of Anuradhapura, Vavuniya and Kilinochchi.
I propose to allocate Rs. 100 million for this purpose. Inland fisheries provide food nutrition and a source of income. This sector is underutilized.
Therefore, I propose to allocate Rs.100 million to National Aquaculture Development Authority (NAQDA) to undertake programmes to enhance fish breeding capacity.
I also propose to set up an Aquaculture Park in Batticaloa District by providing an enabling environment for the potential private sector investors to develop coastal aquaculture without causing environmental degradation. Aquaculture Park provides an 'investment ready' platform for organizations that want to set up commercial aquaculture operations.
Poultry
I encourage the local poultry industrialists to further invest for expansion and to improve productivity and quality. I also encourage them to take advantage of Sri Lanka being recognized as a bird flu free country in the region to penetrate overseas markets, especially the Middle East.
Government will extend the maximum support in this regard.
Plantation Economy
The Regional Plantation Companies (RPC) that were established in 1992 have now run its course. It is time to rejuvenate the RPCs by restructuring them into small manageable units so that all RPCs could seek listing in the Colombo Stock Exchange (CSE).
To strengthen the activities of the RPCs, I also propose to relax restrictions on the usage of RPC land in the cultivation of different crops. However, leases of RPC's that commits to a long term investment for replanting and modernizing will be extended for 50 years, with management fees to be reviewed.
Tea
The tea industry is presently facing issue of significant dip in prices in the international market. Therefore so as to address these issues, we propose to establish a Working Committee consisting of both the government and private sector officials.
Tea Blending
As such with the aim of developing Sri Lanka as a tea hub I propose to liberalize the tea imports to the country
Rubber
I urge manufactures to utilize locally produced natural rubber for their value added products instead of the imported rubber.
Coconut
As requested by the coconut industrialists, it is proposed to import coconut for value addition in a specially designated area regulated by the relevant government entities, from where such products will be exported. The proposed importation of coconuts will be allowed subject to strict adherence to quarantine requirements. I also propose to allocate Rs.250 million to coconut cultivation rehabilitation programme, which includes the promotion of practices such as mulching.
Other Crops
In support of these industries, the Sugarcane Research Institute and the Palmyrah Research Institute will be strengthened for which I propose to allocate a sum of Rs.100 million.
Spices and Allied Products
To address issues faced by the spice industry, the government will collaborate with the Spice Council to undertake a branding exercise of Sri Lankan spices globally, for which, I propose to allocate Rs. 150 million.
Revival of the Rural Economy
Accordingly, projects will be undertaken to develop infrastructure of the villages, and livelihood development to empower local community facilitating an upliftment of their standards of living. For this rural reawakening programme, I propose to allocate a sum of Rs.1.5 million to each village which will amount to Rs.21,000 million.
I also propose to establish a new economic zone in Vavuniya, for which I propose to allocate a sum of Rs.200 million to the Ministry of Rural Economic Affairs.
I propose to allocate Rs.2,000 million to rehabilitate small tanks and canals to support rural agriculture.
National Environment Conservation Programme
Our government led by the President and the Prime Minister have placed the highest importance in conserving the environment within the context of sustainable development.
It is in this background, that His Excellency the President has initiated a 3 year National Environmental Conservation Programme considering the impact it has on all spheres of life while managing the Carbon foot print of our country by implementing the best practices in this respect. The key actions envisaged in this programme include, developing and conserving forest reserves, controlling environment pollution, sustainable land management, bio resource conservation etc. For these activities and for additional programmes relating to child protection, drug prevention, agriculture, I propose to allocate Rs.2,000 million.
I propose to allocate a sum of Rs. 4,000 million to be utilized within three years to programmes aimed specially at protecting wild life and addressing the human elephant conflict.
Ornamental Fish Industry
I encourage the private sector, especially the youth of this country, to engage in this industry and propose to provide concessional credit to those who will venture into this industry, and convert it to a vibrant export industry.
Gem and Jewelry
To improve the industry, I propose to upgrade the training courses offered by the State Gem and Jewelry training institutions to train both trainers and the trainees to match with the current demand.
To promote the sale of gems and jewelry and to attract tourists, I propose Sri Lanka to hold "Gem, Jewelry and Diamond" auctions in April and October every year. I also propose a "Gem Emporium" to be established by the private sector in Ratnapura, and further, to harness the benefits of increasing tourism, private sector is encouraged to open duty free gem and jewelry shops at the airport.
In order to protect the world class local jewelry craftsman, a 10 percent cess on imported jewelry will be imposed 180. With all this support and encouragement, we expect the export earnings from Gems and
Gold
I propose Central Bank to adopt a scheme where 50 licenses will be issued allowing import of gold free of all import duties. These licensees will trade the imported gold to jewelry manufactures. No person will be permitted to trade gold without the said license.
Primary Industries
We will form a Primary Industry Council consisting of industry experts who will create strategies to meet the challenges faced by primary industries.
As stated in Honourable Prime Minister’s policy statement, we will be creating specialized agricultural and fishery export zones in the country. The Ministry of Primary Industries will be allocated Rs. 2,000 million for the establishment of the proposed agricultural and fishery export zones.
Digitalization of the Economy
It is envisaged that by end 2018 all the government buildings including Divisional Secretariats offices, Provincial Councils, Pradeshiya Sabhas, Sub Post offices and Police Stations will be connected electronically. This will enable the servicing of around 70 percent of their day-to-day transactions online.
We also propose to introduce a National Digital Identity (NDI), which will ensure that all financial and non-financial digital transactions to be transpired in a secure manner.
To strengthen the use of ICT in the classroom teaching and learning process, several projects have been planned in collaboration with the Ministry of Education. As part of the initiative, initially 200 smart digital classrooms will be established by 2016 and another 1,000 digital classrooms by 2017 across the country.
The government is committed to an Open Government Partnership (OGP). The implementation of the national big data platform will further help Sri Lanka to meet the requirement of OGP.
I propose to allocate Rs. 10,000 million for the purpose of implementing an advanced digitalization programme of economy.
Investment Promotion
In this endeavor, our government will restructure the BOI, the Export Development Board and Sri Lanka Tourism Development Authority with a view to improve operational efficiency and to facilitate investments.
Until the restructuring process is completed, an organization under the name "Agency for Development" will be established. We have identified key thrust areas which has a potential for investment over USD 2 billion to be as follows: Oil Refinery, Renewable energy, Integrated car manufacturing, Manufacturing Steel bridges for the region, Fertilizer, manufacturing triple super phosphate, Satellite technology, Aircraft repair and logistical support, Integrated sugar industry.
In this context, some of the key impediments to attracting investment will be addressed as follows: I propose to remove the tax imposed on the leasing of land to foreigners and also to consider the removal of restrictions on ownership on identified investments imposed through the Land (Restrictions on Alienation) Act, which has been an impediment for attracting investments to the country.
Management Companies
Highly environmentally sensitive industries will be facilitated to operate in specially designated areas such as Puttalam, Hambanthota and Kilinochchi.
Government lands and investment related tax concessions will be provided to investors who invest in lagging regions of the country given that the government’s policy of ensuring an equitable development in all parts of the country.
Lubricant
Presently the lubricant market is managed only by a few companies. Hence I propose to liberalize the lubricant market and I encourage the companies to venture into more value added products with high investment. Further I propose to remove lubricants from BOI negative list.
Bitumen - I also propose to liberalize the Bitumen market so as to enable the expeditious rehabilitation and construction of roads and expressways.
I encourage the expansion and modernization of existing business by investing in machineries and based on the creation of new employment the profits from such expansion will be subjected to half tax rate for 3 years.
We wish to review and make the necessary revisions to the Revival of Underperforming Enterprises and Underutilized Assets Act No 43 of 2011, which was introduced by the previous government where many investors were harassed. I would like to emphasize that this government will not undertake such undesirable politically biased activities. Instead we will bring in new laws to protect local and global investors.
The Strategic Development Project Act will be continued to be effective for existing companies that have been availed the concessions under the last government. For new investments, instead of Strategic Development Project Act, a new investment Act will be enacted. Honourable Speaker, I propose to extend tax incentives to those private sector companies who wish to invest in mixed development projects that will have a significant impact on the landscape of the country. However, those companies that have already applied for concessions will be made privy to the same in the interim period, pending new legislations. Honourable Speaker, we imposed super gain taxes, and many companies complied. This was imposed as a one-off tax. Therefore, I wish to inform this house that there will be no such super gain taxes in future.
Inward Remittances and Investment flows
Further, in line with the liberalization of the exchange controls, I propose to abolish Securities Investment Account (SIA) through which the foreign investors have been requested to channel their investments to the country. Instead, I propose that investors should be allowed to bring in money to Sri Lanka through any bank account existing in the formal banking system.
To encourage ship building, ship breaking and ship repair activities, for which I propose to allocate government land in Hambanthota and Trincomalee.
Export Promotion
A high level body who can take policy decisions and clear bottlenecks will be formed to ensure successful implementation and effective monitoring of the export strategy of the country. Therefore, an Export Development Council of Ministers (EDCM) chaired by His Excellency the President, as mandated by Statute and comprising of the Honourable Prime Minister and other relevant Ministers, will be appointed. I am glad to note that local private sector companies have expanded overseas especially in areas relating to electricity generation etc. As such, the Ceylon Electricity Board (CEB) too is encouraged to seek opportunities overseas for generation, transmission and distribution.
Already many local companies have expanded these operations into countries like Bangladesh, Uganda and Tanzania for electricity related projects.
Therefore, I propose to strengthen the commercial sections of our diplomatic missions abroad. I also propose to make it mandatory for commercial sections of Sri Lankan Diplomatic missions to provide a market guide on products and services of interest to local businesses periodically which will be made available on the websites of the Department of Commerce and Export Development Board (EDB).
Official Reserves
Our government which faced the identical situation in 2001 was successful in realigning the rupee. Our administration is run by professionals and as such, we will ensure that the exchange rate will not be mismanaged but be allowed to be decided on fundamentals.
It has been found that exporters are keeping around 30 percent or over USD 3 billion of the export earnings outside of Sri Lanka. Our government through this budget has given many incentives to the exporters and our commitment to ensuring a fair and transparent business environment in itself should make our businesses happy. It is time that they too reciprocated. They must deliver now. Given that we have now entered into a flexible exchange rate policy, I see no reason why there should be an excuse for exporters not to bring their foreign funds back to Sri Lanka. Therefore, I urge all Sri Lankan exporters to remit their export proceeds in full with immediate effect. This will further strengthen the macro fundamentals that will create the platform for a better economic environment. I am sure if you are truly Sri Lankan, you would not let Mother Lanka down. This is your turn!
International Trade
The existing Imports and Exports Control Act has created a license regime and has no teeth to control our country being a dumping ground for substandard goods. As such, I propose to introduce a new legislation replacing the existing Act that will create an improved level playing field for domestic industries and ensure a more efficient import export system in the country.
Land
To maximize the use of government land, and to curb fraudulent dealings relating to land, I propose to introduce a “land bank” which is an electronic database of state-owned lands. I propose to allocate Rs. 500 million for this purpose. ICTA will ensure quick migration to an electronic data base. Subsequently, this database can be extended to contain records of the privately owned land as well.
Housing
I propose to provide 100,000 units of housing through private public partnerships (PPP) within a period of 5 years to these shanty dwellers ensuring that relocation will not affect their livelihoods and social networks.
Construction
The construction industry faces severe issues in recovering their dues on time. This has had a debilitating impact on their very existence. As such, I propose to introduce a Payment Guarantee Security Act which will provide adequate cover in recovering their payments.
As there is a demand for skilled labour in Building and Construction industry, I propose to introduce a PPP program with the private sector for practical training and an allowance of Rs 10,000 will be paid monthly to the trainees by the government during the training period limited to 3 months. It is envisaged that at least 7,500 youth will be trained in masonry, carpentry, plumbing, electrical, aluminum extrusion etc. on a quarterly basis. I propose to allocate Rs. 500 million for this purpose.
Tourism
I propose to provide training to youth keen to join the hospitality industry in collaboration with the private sector. For a 3-month standard training course, 50 percent of the course fee subject to a maximum of 15,000/- will be borne by the Government, and it is targeted to train a minimum of 3,000 youth every quarter. I propose to allocate a sum of Rs.100 million for this purpose.
Further, as a source of encouragement for the private sector hotels willing to establish training schools on their own, I propose to provide tax benefits in line with the triple deduction made available for skilled development.
Medical/healthcare tourism especially our traditional medicinal practices has the capacity to gain traction internationally. However, it is important that we maintain the highest standards in medical/healthcare tourism and do not allow unacceptable practices tarnishing the image of the country. As such, I propose to introduce appropriate legislation to regulate this industry immediately.
I also propose to remove import duties on the caravan carriages, yachts, surfing equipment, speed boats and mini cruise boats.
[Banking and Finance ]
Colombo International Financial Centre (CIFC)
A specific zone will be built on the lines of the Dubai International Financial Centre and such other off-shore centres around the world. The zone will cover a demarcated area in D R Wijewardena Mawatha, where a 300,000 square feet facility will be constructed. The proposed financial center will have an own commercial court for resolution of commercial disputes in a quick and equitable manner keeping in line with the financial centre regulatory requirements. We expect that this initiative will convert the infamous casino proposal of the former government into a robust venture of a financial centre which will be creating a number of new employment opportunities. We invite domestic and international banks to operate in Sri Lanka and be part of the proposed centre. This operation will be ready to commence by 1 April, 2016.
Commercial Banking
I also propose to merge the HDFC Bank and State Mortgage and Investment Bank (SMIB) to create a much stronger and larger "National Housing Bank", Lankaputhra Development Bank (LDB) to be merged with Regional Development Bank (RDB) to create the "Lanka Enterprise Development Bank", and also Sri Lanka Savings Bank to be merged with National Savings Bank.
Finance Companies
As you may remember the last decade witnessed many financial companies in crisis. The impact of this crisis was felt in every corner of the society and our financial sector stability was strained. Depositors were badly let down. The Central Bank of Sri Lanka which was entrusted with the supervisory function had failed in its role as the independent regulator through the compromise of its legendary independence due to politicization.
Finance companies have been most vulnerable and as you know the government had to provide relief to the Golden Key Depositors at a heavy cost. To find a long standing solution for this issue, a Financial Institution Restructuring Agency (FIRA) on the lines of the Resolution Trust Corporation in the United States of America will be established shortly to help failing finance companies to be recapitalized and their troubled assets to be taken over by this agency for purposes of restructuring. A wide differential between the deposit and lending rates is seen in the low efficiency financial sector which has caused high cost of intermediation to the public and businesses in Sri Lanka. The government will provide initial capital of Rs.10 million as equity and also issue a Treasury bond to the value of Rs. 25 billion with a tenure of 5 years for the FIRA. The Central Bank will be entrusted to undertake strict supervision on his restructured finance companies.
However, as a prelude to the above proposal in order to provide the depositors with a sense of comfort and security, the Central Bank of Sri Lanka will give a 100 percent guarantee on all deposits of all the registered finance companies by end January 2016.
To prevent undue concentration of deposits in the non-bank financial sector, I propose to impose a cap on the interest rates offered by the Finance Companies. Further, we will protect the public who have got into difficulties in the payment of the high rates of interest and penalty charges levied by financial institutions on credit cards and other personal lifestyle loans. To ensure this process, the Central Bank will, in association with all other banks operating in Sri Lanka, expand the credit counselling activities. We expect the Central Bank to issue directions that will restrict the ability of financial institutions to grant unlimited amounts of expensive credit to unsuspecting borrowers.
Fixed Deposits of Senior Citizens
At present the 15 percent interest rate offered to senior citizens is limited to Rs.1 million and only to citizens above 60 years. I propose to expand this benefit to citizens above 55 years of age and the 15 percent interest rate to be applicable to deposits up to Rs.1.5 million. This facility will be granted through Licensed Finance Companies where an interest subsidy of 1.5 percent will be granted by the Government. I propose to allocate Rs. 1,500 million for this purpose. I note that Central Bank guarantee of deposits should increase the confidence of the depositors.
Creating a Savings Culture
Given the importance of enhancing the national savings of the country, the creation of a savings culture has become important. In this background, I request all banks to open a child savings account for every child attending school by depositing a minimum of Rs. 250 per child per year. The Bankers’ Association has kindly come forward to support the government’s policy and I encourage the Banking community for the initiatives and support provided to this laudable act. This will commence from 1 January 2016.
Capital Market to Stimulate Growth
At present Sri Lanka has been raising only USD denominated bonds in the international market. I propose that going forward, we should examine nontraditional bond markets including the Chinese Yuan and Sukuk bonds with the aim of reducing our cost of borrowings.
SMEs find it difficult to list in the stock exchange given their inability to comply with the Stock Exchange’s regulatory requirements. As such, it hampers the SME’s access to long term relatively cheap finance. Thus, to expand the options available for SMEs' access to finance, it is proposed to create a new SME board on the Colombo Stock Exchange with less stringent compliance requirements for SME listings. This will also provide a comfortable exit strategy for the Venture Capital firms that have invested in SMEs.
Market capitalisation at present is Rs. 28 billion. With all the measures proposed we expect the market capitalisation to reach Rs. 50 billion.
Commodities exchange
In spite of the fact that tea, rubber, coconut and a whole host of commodities are a significant part of our export economy, we do not have a commodities market. I believe that it is now the time to implement a commodity exchange regulated by the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Vibrant Labour Market with Opportunities for All
The composition of our labour force is fast changing given the demographics that tilt towards an ageing population. We have two choices, either we increase the number of workers or improve the output per worker. In my consultations with the industry, it was obvious that both issues need to be addressed.
Considering the current low level of unemployment and labor force participation prevalent in the country together with ageing population, it is appropriate to create a part time job culture to attract the services of skilled labour force who are willing to work less than 40 hours per week which is mandatory for a permanent job. Therefore, I propose that the enabling environment be created to introduce a part-time job culture in the country to enable the private and public sector to absorb skilled labour and improve their productivity and competiveness.
I am aware that while the government is keen to attract Business Process Outsourcing (BPO) and Knowledge Process Outsourcing (KPO) into the country, the archaic labour laws has become a hindrance. It is time that we address these issues, and in doing so our government will introduce necessary legislations.
This would also help to increase female labour force participation which is considerably low around 35 percent against the 65 per cent of male labour force participation in the country.
I am also aware that at present, contract employees should be made permanent on completion of after six months of continuous employment. This has led to many employers being reluctant to hire contract employees most of whom are young people and thus depriving them of earning capacity. As such, it is proposed to introduce necessary legislations to extend the time period for making such employees permanent to 1 year from present 6 months.
I encourage the private sector to adopt a 5-day week work culture. This will also allow employees to have more leisure time and spend more time with their families. A 5-day week initiative would help companies to reduce their administrative cost that they incur for 45 hours per week.
Education
The Ministry of Education will also prepare an action plan with a specific timeframe to ensure proper deployment of teachers particularly in Science, Mathematics, IT and English specially into the regional and rural schools. To facilitate the deployment of teachers to such schools, I propose to provide the rural and regional schools with teacher quarters, rest rooms etc for which I propose to allocate Rs.2,000 million.
It is evident that many of our Primary and Secondary schools lack proper sanitary facilities. I propose that by end of 2016 all schools be provided with proper sanitary and water facilities.
For this purpose, I propose to allocate Rs.4,000 million. I also propose that schools without electricity to be provided with electricity either through the national grid or through solar power for which I propose to allocate Rs.2,000 million.
I propose to allocate a sum of Rs.10,000 million to upgrade 3,577 primary schools in the country with the required facilities within the medium term action plan.
At the same time, 1,000 secondary schools will also be provided with other facilities such as activity rooms, laboratories, multimedia facilities, libraries with e-library facility for which I propose to allocate Rs.15,000 million.
There are about 1,360 schools which have been neglected during the recent past without any assistance from government. As such, I propose to allocate a sum of Rs.30,000 million to implement a project to improve the facilities and the quality of such neglected schools.
Resources will be allocated to upgrade 25 schools in the plantation sector to secondary level for which I propose to allocate Rs.250 million.
With a view to improving science education in schools which has no permanent laboratories, I propose to allocate Rs.450 million.
With a view to facilitating dental health facilities in schools, I propose to allocate Rs.250 million to rehabilitate and upgrade the relevant equipment.
The import duties on printed books, magazines and journals will be exempted.
Benchmarking Universities
I am pleased to inform this house that we have increased the total budgetary allocation to improve Higher Education by almost 30 percent in comparison to 2015. It is time that the country embarks on a higher education development revolution.
Mahapola University -
It would be remiss of me if I do not mention the late Honourable Lalith Athulathmudali who as the Trade Minister and our incumbent Prime Minister during his tenure as Education Minister of our nation, rendered a service that is unparalleled in our history. The Mahapola Scholarship scheme has enabled generations of university students to successfully complete their education and go on to be academic or professionals serving both in Sri Lanka and overseas. As such to honour this great statesmen, I am sure that this house will agree to establish a university named Mahapola University located at Malabe. This university will focus on teaching subjects such as ICT, Business Studies, English, Management and other new market oriented subjects. As such I propose to allocate a sum of Rs.3,000 million for this purpose.
In line with our government’s commitment to expanding the opportunities for education in our society, I propose to establish an Engineering faculty in Kilinochchi and an Agriculture faculty in Vavuniya.
The Post Graduate Institute of Pali and Buddhist Studies will be provided with the necessary infrastructure including a new building. I propose to allocate a sum of Rs. 500 million for this purpose.
331. It is also proposed to provide laptops for university students on an interest free 3 year loan.
Also free wi-fi zones will be provided for all universities. I propose to allocate Rs. 300 million for this purpose
It is also proposed to extend the same methodology adopted in giving extra points to those who excel in sports, for those students who have invented a new product or service, created a startup, participated in international competitions such as Math Olympiad etc when considered for university admission.
Much foreign exchange has been flowing out to finance the foreign education of our students for a long time. The flow of foreign exchange must be reversed.
In fact given our capacities in the sector we should now encourage foreign students to study in Sri Lanka and thereby attract foreign exchange. Sri Lanka has the potential to become an educational hub. In this regard the last government’s decision to allow private universities to operate in Sri Lanka is in the correct direction. Our government also is of the view that private universities should be allowed to operate and offer courses except in medicine. Such universities, should be monitored by the University Grants Commission (UGC) to ensure quality and at least 10 percent of the total placements should also be awarded free of charge to students who have successfully completed the local advanced level examination. Local counterparts of such ventures will be provided with tax incentives. Let me assure this house that our government will at no point compromise free education that is prevailing at present.
I understand that the university academic staff are not entitled to various payments made when travelling overseas for official work including presenting papers etc. I therefore propose to extend the same facilities offered to executive officials of all services in Government to the faculty of universities as well.
Government will continue to absorb graduates to government service through competitive examination process. With our government's new initiatives, the government sector employees' capacities should be enhanced and developed to meet the modern day challenges. Therefore, I urge the universities to gear up and focus their degree courses to suit the present day employment market requirements.
I propose to allocate an additional sum of Rs.6,000 million to execute the proposed actions stated above. Vocational Training and Technical Education – Diversion for Opportunities
During the Budget preparation process, I interacted with various industry chambers in the country. One issue that was highlighted by the relevant chambers was the lack of skilled workers for primary and middle level employment in the country.
I am aware that there are more than 400 units of government institutions in the country to provide vocational training and skills development. But it appears that there is lack of coordination among such entities, as well as, less linkages including a requirement to interface with the private sector.
I therefore propose to strengthen the Industry Sector Councils for various industries to advise the line Ministry/ Tertiary and Vocational Education Commission so that the vocational training strategy of the country will be attuned to the needs of the private sector.
With the establishment of UNIVOTEC and Ocean University, there is an alternate path for those who are exiting out of the school system to progressively acquire certification, diplomas and degrees. Therefore, to enhance and improve the curricular, I propose to introduce new degree courses in Marine Biology, Marine Recreation and Sea Port, Boat/ Ship building, Integrated Coastal Resource Management etc. by the Ocean University.
With the aim of increasing skilled labour force in the country, five university colleges has been established and one more to be commenced within the near future at Batangala. As such, I propose to develop the curricular of these university colleges to include courses in Polymer Technology, Renewable Energy Technology, Plantation Crop Technology, Journalism etc. and also to upgrade the Colleges of Technology to the status of university colleges to produce middle level technicians. Further, I propose to introduce new courses by the UNIVOTEC to allow the students who have passed out from the university colleges with NVQ 5 and 6, to continue their studies upto NVQ 7 which is equivalent to a degree.
To strengthen the technical and vocational education further, I propose to increase the intake of Ceylon German Technical Training Institute (CGTTI) by 200 students within a period of two years. The Killinochchi Vocational Training Centre, funded by the GIZ, is nearing completion. Therefore, I propose to develop this training center as an Independent Training Institute similar to the CGTTI.
Further, it is noted that development of soft skills and proficiency in English language are vital to compete in the employment market. It is therefore proposed to establish a dedicated program to train the master trainers’ abroad to educate students in the TVET sector on soft skills and English language. Further, we encourage private institutions to provide standardized English language courses.
I propose to allocate an additional sum of Rs 3,000 million to execute the actions stated above.
Empowering Youth through the Youth Corp
In order to provide more opportunities for ordinary and advanced level drop outs, I propose the National Youth Corp to provide youth with career guidance, personal development through leadership training, discipline etc. and channel them to Vocational Training Institutes for technical education. Thus, I propose that the Sri Lanka Vocational Training Authority and other entities engaged in the sphere of vocational training be linked to the National Youth Corp.
I therefore propose to allocate an additional sum of Rs 3,000 million to execute these actions.
It is time that we encourage our youth to fork out a future of their own using their collective capacities and entrepreneurial spirits. In this context, I propose to introduce a mechanism where the commercial banks will engage in group lending to youth who have created a unit consisting of at least 50 members to engage in projects such as mushroom farming, furniture industry, vehicle electricity-charging stations, food industry, ornamental fish farming, dairy industry, bee honey industry etc. The commercial banks will finance such projects at a concessionary interest rate and should such ventures expand, they will be eligible for better access to finance and resources. Depending on the size of the project, state land also will be provided for these projects. It is expected at least 300,000 youth from 6,000 villages would be mobilized island wide for this purpose, for which I invite the National Savings Bank to device a loan scheme dedicated for this purpose as a Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR)Project.
Health – Modern Healthcare
This government fully recognizes the requirement to invest in the health sector. We are committed to providing free health services to our citizens. In this respect our strategy is multi-pronged whereby investments will be in capacity development of personnel, soft and hard infrastructure development and research and development.
This house has had many debates and discussions on the CKDU issue that is prevailing in the country. This has reached proportions of an unimaginable magnitude levels and inaction is not an option. As such, I propose to immediately establish 1,000 kidney dialysis centres in CKDU prevalent areas at a cost of Rs.6,500 million.
I also propose the construction of a hospital specializing in kidney disease management in Minneriya for which I propose to allocate a sum of Rs.2,000 million.
I propose to allocate Rs.3,000 million to be utilised for the construction of 3 cancer hospitals in Nallur, Kandy and Matara.
To improve better access to quality health care, I also propose to upgrade the Anuradhapura, Kurunegala and Jaffna Hospitals with the state of the art buildings, equipment and other facilities. I propose to allocate Rs. 3,000 million for this purpose.
With the aim of widening the reach of health care facilities in the country improving better accessibility and shortening the time of response to an emergency, the concept of mobile hospitals will be developed. As such I propose to allocate a sum of Rs.200 million for this purpose.
Given the increasingly high challenge of non-communicable diseases that effects children and adults alike, the government in the next 3 years will allocate resources to train specialist doctors in Pathology, emergency medicine, geriatrics, paediatrics and also geriatric nurses, and para medical staff. I propose to allocate Rs.250 million for this purpose.
We have a large number of base and divisional hospitals. These hospitals lack basic healthcare facilities such as bed strength, diagnosis equipment, consumables, etc. I am also aware that these hospitals find it difficult to retain doctors as they lack proper facilities for the resident doctors such as suitable accommodation etc. In this background, I propose to fulfil the basic accommodation requirements of doctors and other medical staff in rural areas within a period of 2 years. I encourage private public partnerships where the private sector will construct and maintain the facility for which government will provide rent.
It is also proposed to build and equip 10 district-based stroke centres attached to tertiary care hospitals within the next 2 years and also it is proposed to strengthen the accident and emergency care services in the hospitals. As such I propose to allocate a sum of Rs.5,000 million for this purpose.
Research and development is an important element of our health sector strategy. Our health sector professionals do engage in R&D and innovation with little or no support from the Government. In fact, I commend the gold medallists of the International Exhibition of Inventions in Geneva 2015, Dr. Thusitha Kahaduwa for the invention of the device “Footie”, Dr. Anupa Herath for the invention of the peripheral
nerve stimulator needle and Dr.Anura Wickramasinghe who was awarded the World Federation of Societies of Anaesthesiologists (WFSA) Innovation award for his creation of a new low cost video laryngoscope. I am sure that these three young doctors have followed the footsteps of many other doctors who have invented such innovative devices and practices that has nurtured and uplifted the quality of the health sector in the country. I commend and felicitate them for their enterprise.
Having recognised the importance of Research and Development in the health sector, I also propose to allocate Rs.250 million to the National Science Foundation (NSF) to support and assist research in Diabetes, Dengue, CKDU and Cancer.
Sri Jayawardenapura hospital will be refurbished and expanded to be able to compete with the private sector. As such I propose to allocate Rs. 1,500 million. At the same time given that qualified nurses are in great demand both in the local and overseas market, the infrastructure facilities required to train 2,000 nurses per annum at the Nursing school affiliated to the Jayawardenapura hospital needs to be improved, for which I propose to allocate a sum of Rs. 2,500 million.
To monitor the effective use of funds I also propose the establishment of an oversight unit in every hospital which will ensure value for money concept is practiced.
To curtail draining out of foreign exchange from the country I invite private sector to venture into establishing Pharmaceutical Zones as PPPs. The government will also contribute by providing land. A buy-back arrangement will be agreed upon to purchase the government requirement of the respective pharmaceutical items manufactured and they will also be encouraged to access markets on their own.
Encouraging Indigenous Medicine
Our traditional medicinal and healing systems has been passed down from generation to generation and has sustained the nation until the introduction of Western Medicine which has overtaken the indigenous medication and healthcare.
However, traditional healing never lost its ground fully. The revival of interest from the west has rejuvenated the indigenous medicinal systems of the country. So much so that today Sri Lanka has become an internationally renowned destination for ayurvedic tourism.
While the indigenous system has many issues, one key factor is the scarcity of herbal medicines. As such, to encourage the cultivation of short term herbs such as Katuwelbatu, Vishnukranthi etc., I propose to allocate government land to 2,000 farmers and also to make available concessional funding for this purpose.
In order to maintain the world class reputation of the industry and maintain the integrity of the systems, I propose to introduce a regulatory mechanism to regulate all ayurvedic hospitals and spas that are set up all over the country.
Research and Development for an Innovations led Economy
Our investment in Science, Technology and Innovation has failed to keep up with the growth in GDP. Its impact is evident in the low percentage of high tech value addition to our manufactured exports (0.9 percent in Sri Lanka compared to 50-75 percent in developed industrialized countries) poor contribution of patents and research based service industry to our economy. This has to change rapidly if our economy is to be led by innovation.
We expect high tech manufactured exports constitute at least 10 percent of our exports by 2020.370. To expedite this process, I propose to set up an Innovation Accelerator, a platform that will combine the National Innovation Programmes (NIPs) of the Coordinating Secretariat for Science Technology and Innovation (COSTI) and the National Thematic Research Programme (NTRP) and the technology support schemes of the National Science Foundation (NSF), with clear deliverables directed towards three pillars of sustainability; economic development, social justice and the environmental quality.
In order to execute the above, I propose to set up a National Innovation Centre in the Ministry of Science, Technology and Research which will manage the Innovation Accelerator Fund set up as a revolving fund. It is proposed to allocate Rs 100 million as seed capital to this Centre while another Rs.3,000 million will also be provided within a period of 3 years.
We are keen to ensure that these innovations are ultimately transferred into commercial successes. COSTI has identified 25 such projects that have the potential to succeed commercially. Some of these innovations include GoviNena, a mobile application to support efficient agricultural commodity production, Energy storage systems etc. Such innovations have a direct impact on the industry concerned as well as contributing to the sustainability of target sectors. High end equipment acquisition supported with accelerated depreciation etc. will be made available to any Company that will partner these innovations to be monetized. The government will also facilitate these ventures by providing land or any other resource based on the type of project.
I propose that the Nenasala’s be upgraded to be Public Innovation Centers for entrepreneurship. As such Nenasala centers should be upgraded to include a 3 D printer, laser cutters and engravers, and other power tools which are vital for a typical fabrication lab. As such I propose to allocate Rs. 100 million to upgrade selected Nenasala centers in 2016. These upgraded centres in addition to their usual task of facilitating ICT empowerment will also drive local entrepreneurship and provide technology support to SMEs.
For Sri Lanka to develop high margin, value added, branded export products, registering trademarks overseas has become a necessity. To expedite the registration process and to reduce the cost of registration, it is proposed that Sri Lanka become a member of the Madrid System for international registration of trademarks, a body administered by the International Bureau of the Word Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO). This was a request made by the industry. As such, I propose to allocate a sum of Rs.100 million to the Intellectual Property Office so that it can facilitate the accession to the Madrid system by amending the trade mark law and upgrading of physical and human capital.
I propose to entrust the Sri Lanka Inventors Commission (SIC) to formulate a strategy for promoting patent applications worldwide by promoting awareness among inventors on benefits of international patent rights and identify prospective inventions to obtain international patent rights and make arrangements to provide financial and technical support to facilitate obtaining international patent rights. In this regard, I propose that the cost incurred by the inventors to be borne by the government up to a maximum of USD 100,000.
Protecting the Ageing Population
It is expected that the elderly population in Sri Lanka will be almost 20 percent of the total population in year 2020 vis a vis just 9.3 percent in 2000. It is widely recognized that the ageing population will have far reaching implications for the society and for the economy given the unique challenges that an ageing population will create including the significant additional demands for more organized aged care systems and the associated financing and delivery of services for needy elders. Honourable Speaker, we do not currently have a good understanding of the implications of the growing diversity among the older Sri Lankans and the demand for these services. The aged care market in Sri Lanka has not developed to the level of other middle income countries despite there being a growing demand for such services in existence. Thus a multi-pronged strategy which consists of the following are proposed:
National Council for Elders will create a national policy on elders having discussed with all stakeholders. I propose to allocate a sum of Rs.10 million from the Consolidated Fund for this purpose.
You will also appreciate that skilled geriatric care professionals are in high demand globally as well as domestically. As such, to encourage national universities and private sector academic entities to offer courses and training programmes aimed at Geriatric care, any private academic entity that will offer internationally accredited courses aimed at geriatric care will be given 50 per cent tax reduction for a period of 5 years.
Housing for the elderly also is in high demand, but critically weak in supply in the country. Half tax holidays will be allowed to private individuals and companies who engage in construction housing facilities especially focused for the elderly. As this is a worthy cause government will support such ventures by providing government land.
I understand that Insurance Companies do not issue medical insurance covers to senior citizens, which appears to be a discriminatory for a segment of our society. Therefore, I compel all Insurance Companies to issue medical insurance covers to all citizens up to 75 years.
Al citizens above the age of 65 years will be able to enjoy public transport, free of charge when the National Digital Identity (NDI) is issued.
Protecting the Children, Our Future
Children are the foundation of sustainable development. The early years of life are important not only for individual health and physical development, but also for cognitive, social and emotional development. It is with this in mind that the government has now entered into an agreement with the World Bank on Early Childhood Development (ECD) project at a cost of USD 50 million or Rs.7,000 million.
With the change in the structural transformation of the family - from extended families to nuclear families - along with the increasingly large number of working parents, the lack of reliable and good quality childcare has given rise to many complex issues. It is noted that often the childcare centers in operation also are not suitable for children with such centers lacking the required physical infrastructure to care for children properly and also caregivers not being formally trained for the job. I encourage the private sector to start childcare centers which will be regulated by the National Childcare and Protection Authority. I propose to allow such expenditure as qualifying payment.
In the last few months alone we have heard heartbreaking news about young children being abducted, molested, raped and killed. I cannot reiterate the depth of the government’s commitment to protecting children. None of these issues of childcare can be looked in isolation. Given the ramifications for the future, the following are proposed:
The National Child Protection Authority (NCPA) will be mandated to create a governing regulatory framework to safeguard the needs of families and the children, an early Childhood Learning Framework and the National Legal and Quality Framework with the aim to provide quality, safe and caring childcare facilities and caregivers to the society. It is noted that the NCPA also will be strengthened as I believe their role has expanded tremendously in the recent past. For this purpose it is proposed to allocate Rs. 100 million from the Consolidated Fund.
The country lacks skilled child caregivers. This in turn has had a detrimental impact on the society as a whole. The Sri Lanka Vocational Training Authority together with the NCPA will be allocated Rs.50 million to formulate accredited child caregiver training as a beginning.
At the same time should any private entity desirous of offering accredited courses on childcare, double tax benefits will be made available.
Postal Services
Postal services around the world are faced with significant issues given the advent of email, internet marketing etc. Our postal service today too is faced with the same challenges. As such, to overcome such challenges, I propose to encourage the postal department to convert their businesses to provide courier services. Further, I encourage sub post offices that are uncompetitive, to diversify their operations to other businesses such as collecting of savings on behalf of Banks and to provide other ancillary services that would generate additional income to make them profitable units. However, I wish to reiterate that the government will continue the payments due under the present system to sub post offices.
Public Order and Safety
In order to improve the security, law and order at village level, I propose to increase the number of police stations to 600 from the existing 428 stations in consultation with the Minister of Law and Order and the Inspector General of Police (IGP) which will relate to an additional allocation of Rs. 1,000 million.
Our police officers offer their services under excruciating circumstances. They are often the first respondents in emergencies and provide numerous other services to our citizens. It is certainly required that they be provided continuous training in core policing sectors including modern traffic management systems, both domestically and internationally. In this regard I propose to strengthen the National Police
Training Academy in the country. I propose to allocate Rs. 100 million for this purpose.
I note that the deployment of networked communications have become a strategic asset on which Police can coordinate its emergency responses and enhance communication between state agencies and citizens. For the implementation of this I propose to allocate Rs.250 million.
Our government certainly recognizes the services rendered by the police and will undertake to address the salary issues in the police service within a period of 2 years. For this purpose I propose to allocate a sum of Rs.3,000 million for 50% of the due payments.
Further, each police station will be regarded as a separate cost centre which will result in better financial discipline.
State Owned Enterprises
State Owned Enterprises (SOEs) remain a very significant part of the government economic strategy in so far they have monopolistic control or a significant control in key sectors such as power and energy, ports and airports, airlines, water supply etc. The government reiterates that no SOE will be privatized simply as a means to increase revenue. Instead, the government is keen to follow a more strategic approach, where the SOEs will be strengthened and made independent.
As such, initially all SOEs will be brought under a Government owned holding company formed similar to that of the Temasek Holdings of Singapore. This public company would be operated based on sound financial principles and market economics. The shares of these enterprises will be passed onto a Public Wealth Trust (PWT), where the Secretary to the Treasury and the Governor of the Central Bank will be the custodians. This Trust will be managed by a Board comprising of members from civil societies, trade chambers, and trade unions, who will be nominated by the Constitutional Council. The PWT is answerable to Parliament. A new Public Enterprise Act will be enacted to provide the necessary legal framework to this effect.
The Boards of SOEs will be strengthened with the appointment of professionals. Key SOEs will be allowed to operate and be evaluated based on Key Performance Indicators (KPIs).
Key SOEs will also be encouraged to adopt a rating mechanism which will also facilitate the entities to access the domestic and foreign capital markets through various instruments for their capital requirements.
Having recognized that a robust regulatory mechanism is vital in developing self-reliant SOEs, Government will also provide legislative backing to broaden and strengthen the Public Utilities Commission of Sri Lanka (PUCSL) to include the National Water Supply and Drainage Board (NWSDB) and the Ceylon Petroleum Corporation (CPC) enabling a more cost reflective transparent pricing mechanism.
It is noted that the government’s policy in SOEs will be driven by the strategic placement of its investments in relation to the economy. The portfolio of investments of the government includes not only SOEs engaged in maintaining and controlling key strategic infrastructure in power generation, transmission, ports, airports, water supply etc., but also investments in hotels, condominiums, etc. that are non-strategic. As such, as stated by the Honourable Prime Minister in his address on this floor, the government is keen to streamline its portfolio of investments and will therefore exit partially or fully from those non-strategic investments in Lanka Hospitals, Hotel Developers PLC (Colombo Hilton), Hyatt Residencies, Waters Edge, Grand Oriental Hotel, Ceylinco Hospital and Mobitel by listing such investments in the Colombo Stock Exchange during 2016. The monies generated through such listings will be used to retire high cost debt accrued by the Rajapaksa regime. I note that the strategy of this government is not one sided in so far that while the government will not hesitate to exit from non-strategic assets, nevertheless the government will monitor the market and will also not hesitate to invest in strategic assets locally and internationally should it align with the economic policy of the country.
I note that the Lak Sathosa which could have been an effective price stabilizer is today operating with an accumulated debt of Rs.8 billion, incurred mostly through unwise political decisions such as the import of rice from Bangladesh at Rs.75 per kilogram and selling it at Rs.50 per kilogram. Lak Sathosa must be used as a conduit to ease the cost of living of our people. As such, as a part of the strategy of revitalizing Lak Sathosa, its debt will be restructured. At the same time distribution network will be expanded with increasing the number of outlets upto 500 for which I propose to allocate a sum of Rs.1,000 million.
I propose to establish, a Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) for the Southern Expressway and the Katunayake Expressway. Private investors will be invited toinvestment into the SPV for which the government will guarantee a minimum return. The funds generated from the investments in the SPV will be utilized to clear the debt that our country is saddled with.
I also propose to establish a SPV for the Norochcholai coal fired power plant to be securitized. I emphasize that the ownership structure of power plant will not change but the CEBs liquidity position will improve and thus enable its expansion activities.
The Ceylon Petroleum Corporation will collaborate with investors to form a company that will manage the oil tank farm in Trincomalee which at presently under-utilized. This facility will be operated as a bonding warehouse.
The President and the Prime Minister has instructed that salaries and allowances paid to all Chairmen’s and Directors on the Boards of SOE’s to be specified. I note that instructions to this effect have been issued before, but was breached. However, from 01 January, 2016, regulations issued by the Treasury should be strictly adhered to.
Aviation Sector
Government will pursue an open sky policy with restriction free traffic and I invite the international airlines to make Sri Lanka a preferred destination.
To improve the domestic air transportation, three new domestic airports will be established at Digana, Badulla and Puttlam through a PPP arrangement.
There is considerable travel between Africa and East Asia and it is estimated to grow substantially in the next 10 years. As such, I propose to the Sri Lanka Tourism Promotional Bureau, together with the international Airlines to create strategies to attract these tourists and entice them to stopover in Sri Lanka in their travel from East to West.
With a view to promoting domestic tourism in the country, I propose to exempt airlines using domestic airports from ground handling charges and other fees. They will be liable to pay only a license fee of Rs.1.5 million per annum.
I propose to increase the over flying charges of commercial planes by 20 percent from 01, January 2016.
SriLankan Airlines
The SriLankan Airlines has been badly managed since the management was taken back from Emirates. Their total debt stands at Rs.158 billion, of which 72 percent relates to the last 3 years of the previous regime. This could be mainly due to corruption, cronyism and poor management. To point blankly state so is an injustice to the tax payers of this country and also an understatement. This accumulated loss could have financed 45,000 buses, 25 fully fledged universities, 40 fully equipped modern hospitals and 48,000 houses.
Unfortunately the revival process of Sri Lankan Airlines also has been pedestrian.
We will restructure and reposition SriLankan Airlines, with professional management inclusive of local and foreign experts to be a regional airline focused on profitable destinations.
I assure this august house that there will not be any political interference at SriLankan Airlines and that we will turn around this entity towards making it a regional leader and successful profit making national airline. The government will fully commit to this revival process and will honour all the obligations however, unpalatable they are.
Ground handling and catering operations which at present are profitable will be managed as separate institutions serving all airlines. They will operate as independent entities running as common service provider to all airlines.
Mihin Lanka
Mihin Lanka is also another relic of the Rajapakse regime that has become a drain on the state coffers. We have already initiated a restructuring plan where, Mihin Lanka will be positioned as a “no frills” budget airline. Mihin will concentrate its operations mainly on domestic routes and will limit its operations to selected international routes.
Mattala Airport
The Mattala Airport has become a white elephant. The country has become indebted due to the loans taken for the construction of the Airport. Our government is keen to turn around Mattala through a private public partnership, where the airport will be utilized for pilot training, logistic aero warehouse activities, cargo services etc.
I also propose to utilize the Mattala airport as a cargo hub, especially for air freight. In order to encourage these activities, I propose the throughput charges to be fixed at USD four cents per kilogramme. I invite integrated courier companies to utilise Mattala airport for their hub operations.
409. I propose to encourage the private sector to set up flying training school and Maintenance, Repairs and Overhaul (MRO) facilities within the Mattala Airport.
Effective Social Security Networks
This government is committed to ensuring strong social protection and safety network mechanism in the country to protect the most vulnerable in the society from various contingencies. The household transfers are ever ballooning; a case point being in 2015 the total budget allocation amounting to Rs.383 billion while in 2016 the proposed allocation has increased to Rs.420 billion. These household transfers include social security schemes such as Samurdhi, fertilizer subsidy, pensions, etc. However, you will no doubt agree that these schemes are riddled with issues of inefficiency and sub optimal effectiveness in reaching those who actually require assistance. The irregular identification of beneficiaries has led to rising malpractices. Coverage of these social safety networks is restricted only to a limited number of contingencies that are faced by the population.
I believe that its time that we review these schemes. Honourable Speaker, the two key issues I believe which ails social protection schemes are the proper identification and seamless transfer of benefits which can be addressed within the ambit of the Welfare Benefits Act. To strengthen this mechanism I also propose that our social networks consisting of senior citizens and dignitaries together with the Grama Niladaris be included to assist the government to identify those who actually needs to be included in our social protection schemes. I also propose to effect all such payments through the banking system which has significant branch outreach in the country. This method which is fairly transparent will allow a seamless transfer of benefits without interference, leakages and corruption.
Our Government believes that all social security schemes be monitored under one entity under the Ministry of Home Affairs.
I am confident that this rationalization of schemes will allow us to ensure more benefits to those vulnerable groups of our society covering not only the traditional aspects of assistance for the differently-abled, healthcare, support for education and elderly benefits, but will allow expansion of our social safety network to cover the contingencies arising from issues such as loss of employment as well.
Public Finance
We will enforce strict regulations with respect to all state purchases. As per the Policy Statement made by the Prime Minister, a Central Procurement Secretariat will be established which will oversee the awarding of tenders and will handle all purchases over a specific value.
I propose all the Chief Accounting Officers and Accounting Officers including Revenue Accounting Officers in the public sector entities to review fees and charges levied by different government entities every three years.
The truth is that the government assets have been mismanaged. I therefore propose that a National Asset Register be maintained at the Department of Public Finance.
I am aware that budget implementation needs to be improved. As such I urge all Ministries to monitor the budget implementation from the beginning of January 2016 and ensure that commitments exceeding allocations are not made and that every Rupee allocated is stretched to the maximum so as to provide a better service to our people.
I propose to increase the guarantee limit under the Fiscal Management (Responsibility) Act (FMRA) from current 7 percent of GDP to 10 percent of GDP, and to enable the issuance of guarantees to Public Private Partnerships in which the government holding is less than 50 percent, at a fee. Regulations will be issued enabling the issuance of Treasury Guarantees on a fee basis.
Improving Treasury Operations
We are committed to enhancing revenue in the country. In this context we will be establishing a Revenue Efficiency and Investigation Unit at the Treasury, to investigate all revenue related matters Customs, Excise, Inland Revenue and Valuation.
Inland Revenue Department (IRD) finds it difficult to function efficiently with the expansion of their activities due to the lack of space in the present building. A new state of the art building which can house the Inland Revenue Department, Excise Department, Postal Department and the National Lotteries Board will be constructed at the Tripoli market. I propose to allocate a sum of Rupees 2,000 million for this purpose.
The task of public sector financial management is becoming increasingly complex in Sri Lanka. Competent Public financial management has become a requirement of utmost priority to the Government. An entity to train officials of the public financial sector has been absent in the past. Therefore, no mechanism is available in the country to award professional qualifications in the sphere of public financial management presently. Consequently, state sector financial management officials are compelled to obtain their professional qualifications from the professional institutions which are mainly focused on private sector financial management.
In this context, I would like to propose to establish an Institute under the Ministry of Finance to provide professional qualifications to public sector Accountants. As such I propose to allocate a sum of Rs.50 million for this purpose.
The activities of the Treasury has now expanded. They require specialist departments to make effective contribution. As such, we will be establishing two departments i.e. Financial and Capital Markets Department and Private Enterprise Affairs Department to deal with capital market activities and another to be the conduit between the government and the private sector.
We do not have a proper space management policy in the country. As a result, public sector delivery has become severely compromised. Hence, I propose to create a Space Management Unit to ensure better space management in government offices.
Public Administration
This government promised to ensure that the independence and the dignity of the public servants of this country will be protected and we delivered. An Independent Public Service Commission has been appointed. Politicization of the public sector is an occurrence of the past.
I also wish to state that all public servants who have made a payment towards the purchase of a Motor Cycle will be ensured that their requests will be granted. I propose to make a lump sum payment per person of Rs. 250,000/- to July strikers. I allocate Rs. 500 million for this purpose.
Justice
I also propose to allocate a sum of Rs.500 million to strengthen the capacity of the Judicial Training Institute, increase the number of judicial officers and capacity building of the office of the Attorney General, Legal Draftsman and the Government Analyst's Department.
I believe that the necessary infrastructure to make Sri Lanka an arbitration centre is in existence. In this regard, I urge the authorities to expedite the necessary processes to utilise this infrastructure to commence dispute settlement and arbitration.
Superannuation Funds
We as a government must ensure that the retired workforce live in a happy environment on retirement considering the contribution they have made to the country’s development during their active working period. There were 156 Approved Provident Funds and Contributory Pension Schemes (APPF) with 168,900 members in 2014. The total assets and investments of these APPFs were Rs.151 billion and Rs. 117 billion, respectively, at the end of 2014.
The existing regulation and supervision of APPFs by the Commissioner General of Labour is weak, and therefore, the savings of members in such funds could be at risk. Hence, there is a need for a new regulatory and supervisory system with prudential and governance standards to ensure the safety of member funds. Therefore, I propose to entrust the regulation of these pension funds to a regulatory body of Sri Lanka. I also propose to introduce legislation on the regulation of superannuation funds.
The cost of providing pensions under the present unfunded pension system of the government has expanded significantly over the years. The rapid aging of our population and related developments have aggravated this issue. Thus, re-evaluation of current pension has become a priority,
while undertaking that the government will continue with the existing pension scheme for the government employees, a new contributory pension system will be introduced to new recruits to the public sector from 01 January 2016 which would ensure a pension at their retirement. The contributions will be directed to a Public Pension Fund.
As indicated the Honourable Prime Minister's economic policy statement made reference to the amalgamation of the EPF and ETF, I wish to inform this house that such strategy will only be pursued once a consensus has been reached between the government and the trade unions.
I also propose to provide a health insurance scheme covering accidents, critical illness and surgeries up to a maximum of Rs.150,000 per child, to the children (up to the age of 18 years) of the members of EPF, at a nominal contribution of Rs.100 per month, per active member.
Women Empowerment
Women constitute more than half of our population and are engaged in the key sectors of our economy, ranging from tea to garments and extending to foreign employment. Yet their representation in the legislative bodies of our country is minimal. Therefore, our government proposes to increase the representation of women in elected political institutions to 25 per cent.
Optimizing Potential in Business Process Management (BPM)
It is estimated that the BPM sector will generate export revenues of USD 1 billion and 100,000 employment opportunities by 2016 and by 2020, this industry is estimated to be able to generate USD 5 billion of export earnings. AT Kearney has ranked Sri Lanka among the top 25 destinations in their global ranking in relation to the final three consecutive rankings carried out. Gartner has ranked Sri Lanka among its top 30 global locations for BPMs.
In achieving the aforementioned the country will need a considerable number of skilled IT professionals. As such, I invite internationally recognized IT educational entities including IT Universities into the country and propose to continue the tax concessions that such companies are privy to at present. These universities will be established as a PPP arrangement and government contribution could be by way of land or other infrastructure facilities.
To say that the Sri Lankan IT, BPM industry has been operating below the radar is an understatement. It is time to make a statement to the world that the country is in business, and showcase the true potential in the industry. As such, to create the enabling environment to facilitate the takeoff in the IT industry, it is proposed that the country undertakes an international promotional and bench marking exercise for which the government, through the Export Development Board (EDB), will provide 50 percent or Rs.100 million out of the total budgeted cost of the benchmarking and promotional activity while the Sri Lanka Association for Software and Services Companies (SLASSCOM) will match the effort by infusing another Rs.100 million. An oversight Committee consisting of SLASSCOM officials and government officials will engage in overseeing this activity.
Business Start-ups
It is noted that the government is keen to stimulate the start up eco system. As such, local and foreign companies with a domestic presence, angel investors, who also partner startup companies of graduates and any other potential startup entrepreneur by providing funding, coaching and mentoring will also be considered for investment concessions. You will no doubt appreciate that not often does the government actively partner the industry in this manner, but this is a good example that the government is actually "walking the talk" in facilitating the private sector to be the "engine of growth" in the country.
Proposed Legislative Amendments
Today, purpose of attainment, speed and efficiency and accurate
decision making are crucial and indispensable to attain economic development and social justice. Our Government is committed to review our Laws and Legal Systems in order to make such reforms as necessary to establish a system that will administer justice in practice and efficiently manage the resolution of disputes and litigations in weeks if not months, but certainly not extending up to years. We expect that the improvements in the efficiency of our Legal Systems will be a considerable boost to the National Economy and a significant aid to the fulfillment of our development goals.
460. My Ministry has already initiated a process to review laws within the purview of or connected with our functions. These include Exchange Control, Taxation, Customs, Excise, EPF and ETF, Land (Restriction on Alienation) Act, Revival of Underperforming Enterprises and Underutilized Act, Welfare Benefits Act and the Public Contracts Act. I also wish to note that we do not have formal regulations in respect of PPP. Therefore I propose to issue guidelines in the interim until proper legislation be enacted to facilitate an accepted legal environment for PPPs. Further, the Government incurs considerable expenses when compelled to have recourse to or is forced into international arbitration. Such Arbitrations often cost in excess of Rs. 100 million. We support the establishment of an International Arbitration Centre in Sri Lanka as advocated by the Ministry of Justice. We are already providing the necessary resources for its establishment and will in the future provide instructions to Government institutions to avoid international arbitration wherever possible.
Transport Sector
The transport sector needs urgent revamping. Our roads are congested with traffic, with no formal traffic management options being adopted. The regulatory mechanism has not kept up with the developments of the sector.
In this respect, I propose to introduce legislative amendments to expand the scope of the National Transport Commission (NTC) Act to include the regulation of three wheelers, taxis, school vans and cargo transportation vehicles.
Road Transportation
At present the Sri Lanka Transport Board (SLTB) spends at least Rs. 4.5 million on the purchase of a bus. However, the old chassis of SLTB are presently sold as scrap which could be used to manufacture buses which I understand could be done at a fraction of the cost spent otherwise on purchasing buses, thus generating savings.
Therefore, I urge the SLTB to explore the possibility of partnering with local companies that has the capacity to build road worthy buses. This process will save around Rs. 1.5 million per bus and we expect to save Rs. 10,000 million per annum.
I also propose that the all state sector agencies dispose of their unutilized dilapidated vehicles through the tendering system to ensure that public assets are not wasted.
I also propose to install a traffic encoder free of charge into every registered vehicle in the country. This will help better management of traffic, deter theft and improve security. As such I propose to allocate a sum of Rs.500 million for this purpose.
Railways
I propose Sri Lanka Railways too to follow the same procedure that SLTB adopts for reusing of bus-chassis, for its old railway carriages. The rolling stocks savings from conversion of condemned scrap to carriages amount almost Rs. 6,000 million per annum.
Further, this will save foreign currency as this will be an import substitution and also create a new local industry.
Considering the demographics, the Kelani Valley line will be modernized where the speed and the carrying capacity will be increased for which I propose to allocate a sum of Rs.1,500 million.
At the same time we encourage freight transport by railways which will reduce the cost of transport.
I also propose to improve the speed of the Jaffna Railway line from Maho to Vavuniya for which I propose to allocate a sum of Rs. 200 million.
Monorail - I also propose to encourage the public sector to partner the private sector to build and operate monorail projects connecting Negombo- Katunayake- Colombo and Colombo- Kaduwela.
Transportation on Waterways
Given the availability of waterways specially in Colombo, I invite the private sector to initiate transportation options utilizing such resources.
Given that the necessity to diversify and supplement activities for tourists, the private sector is encouraged to introduce hovercrafts and other water based sports options into the country. Such crafts could be operated from Chilaw to Colombo, Colombo to Galle and tanks such as Parakrama Samudraya.
To improve water transport in the country, I propose to allocate Rs. 250 million.
Shipping
Ggiven Sri Lanka's geographical location is in close proximity to the key shipping routes that connect the East to the West, and as such the potential to create a Maritime Hub is enormous.
In that context, it is important that we augment into the global value chain and a maritime hub offers greater opportunities. In this regard, it will be important to create the enabling environment to attract ship owners into the country and in a manner to build a maritime economy.
The business of trans-shipment and non container related shipping has to be increased to maintain a major trans-shipment hub. Hence, we need to set a realistic target to be within the top 20 trans-shipment ports in the world by 2025.
Considering the country's geographical location, thee is immense potential in engage in sea marshalling activities. In this regard, I encourage the private sector to venture into suitable collaborations with Sri Lanka Navy.
Logistics
Government will remove restrictions on Global Logistics Companies, which have the scale, capacity, capital and knowledge to expand services using Sri Lanka as the hub, they should be able to invest, acquire and operate within a reasonable tax regime where new capital, business and employment is generated to the local economy via global trade. Also, regulation will be issued to stipulate designated areas for logistics hub and these areas will be strictly outside the BOI zones.
Freight Forwarding
Entry into international freight forwarding will be liberalized so that foreign participation could extend up to a maximum of 75 percent with a minimum investment of USD 5 million. But such companies should have at least 90 percent of local employment. Also I propose the freight forwarding activities to be expanded to sea ports as well and to operate jointly with the Sri Lanka Ports Authority. To encourage skills development and training in shipping related activities, I propose to grant tax concessions on training and related equipment.
I propose to allocate Rs.50 million to strengthen the activities of Indian Ocean Marine Affairs Cooperation.It has been brought to my notice that the container vehicles enteringthe Sri Lanka Ports Authority premises are subject to bureaucratic red tape. I therefore propose to liberalize the vehicle movement activities and introduce a license fee ofRs.100,000/- per vehicle per year.
Industrial Estates and Parks
We have 27 industrial estates in the country. The facilities in these estates have not been upgraded thus hampering the activities of the industrialists. Hence, we will introduce necessary measures to rehabilitate and upgrade these estates. In addition, we will establish Industrial Development Zones (IDZs), in Hambantota, Raigama, Mahaoya and Trincomalee along with Information and Agricultural Technology Zones (IATZs) in Kandy. I propose therefore to allocate Rs.500 million to rehabilitate and improve thefacilities in these estates.
Water Supply
I note that access to pipe borne water is only about 44 percent in the country. Our policy is to enhance access to pipe borne water to 60 percent by 2020. Government has undertaken 29 large scale water supply projects all over the country at a cost of Rs 94 billion. At the same, time 5 major sewerage projects are also being implemented in the country to improve related facilities.
Roads Network
I propose to allocate Rs. 15,000 million for the expansion of the road network which includes the expansion of the Ruwanpura Expressway, extension of Marine drive up to Panadura, extension of the Pamankada-Ratmalana Road, new bridge construction over the Kelani River, reconstruction of 25 bridges and 3 flyovers etc.
Connecting the Country –North East Expressway
We will expand the Central Expressway to connect Dambulla, Polonnaruwa, Mullaitvu and Jaffna under a public private partnership, "Infrastructure Development Authority" (IDA).
Irrigation Projects
I have already allocated Rs. 2,000 million for the rehabilitation and improvement of small scale tanks and canals, I propose to allocate a further Rs.1,000 million to expedite the Yaan Oya irrigation project..
Power and Energy
I encourage the CEB to partner with the private sector to harness such sources not only to meet the domestic requirements but also to export the excess.
Megapolis and Urban Development
The government will introduce comprehensive legislation on Megapolis development.A Master Plan relating to the Megapolis project is scheduled to be completed in 2016 and most of the projects will be implemented on Public Private Partnership (PPP) basis.
Southern Development
The contribution to the economy from the Southern province is only about 15 per cent. However, I believe that there is much scope for improvement. As such, our efforts in Southern Development will be concentrated mainly on developing seaport and airport logistic support services, agro based industries, agriculture support services improvement, urban facility improvement, rural sanitation facility etc. For this purpose, I propose to allocate Rs.1,000 million.
Wayamba Development
I propose to allocate Rs.2,500 million for the implementation of drinking water projects, improvement of irrigation facilities, fisheries development etc. in the North Western Province.
"Pubudamu Polonnaruwa"
Pubudamu Polonnaruwa is an initiative of the President. This is a comprehensive rejuvenating programme encompassing all sectors. This programme will cover the expansion of access to clean water, development of health care facilities, rehabilitation of tanks, improvement of school infrastructure and better sports facilities.
North and East Development
We will build 20,000 houses especially in the Districts of Mannar and Mulativu, with proper sanitation facilities, access to clean water and electricity.
Estate Infrastructure
Our Government will undertake housing programmes to build low cost houses and amenities for the plantation community for which I propose to allocate Rs.1,000 million.
Strengthening Local Government authorities
I propose to allocate Rs.1,500 million for local government authorities to be utilized for the upgrading of infrastructure facilities.
Special Projects
I allocate Rs.150 million to the recently instituted Ministry of Special Assignments.
The President and the Prime Minister were keen to increase the decentralized budget to Rs.15 million per Parliamentarian. I propose to allocate a sum of Rs. 3,375 million for this purpose.
Culture and Arts
I encourage the Association of Artists to initiate a mechanism for a contributory pension scheme for which I propose to allocate Rs. 15 million as the government's contribution.
Sports
Our performance in international sports competitions has deteriorated gradually. Today, our sports bodies and associations have become inactive with politics seeping into the system. We are committed to changing this culture which has hindered the development of sports in our country.
We must introduce a culture of talent scouting or identifying such talent to be harnessed so that we will be able to produce sportsmen who will raise our national flag at international games of the future. I urge relevant stakeholders to rally together and commence work to fulfill this noble task. In these efforts, I propose that the total cost incurred by all national track and field athletes, and the sportsmen and women of a few other chosen fields and their coaches who will participate at reputed international competitions to be borne by the government.
I also encourage the private sector to set up training facilities including coaching in lagging regions for which I propose to allocate government land and concessionary credit facilities.
Given our commitment to developing sports, I also propose to discuss with foreign governments to engage foreign coaches to train our sportsmen and women to reach international standards.
I therefore propose to allocate Rs.1,000 million for the above proposals while removing import taxes applicable on sports goods.
Foreign Employment
I note that while there’s considerable demand for Sri Lankan workers, we are able to only meet 20 percent of the demand due to shortages in semi-skilled and skilled workers. As such, I encourage our youth to enroll in vocational training facilities to upgrade their skills which will enable them to be eligible for better paid jobs both internationally and domestically.
I also propose to increase the agent fee per worker collected by the Sri Lanka Foreign Employment Bureau to Rs. 15,000 per worker. All the migrant workers prior to departure should possess a bank account, insurance cover and information with regard to contact details.
In order to appreciate Middle Eastern migrant workers’ contribution to the country, I propose to operate two dedicated immigration / emigration counters at the Bandaranaike International Airport with "Commercially Important Persons" (CIP) status, for the Middle Eastern traffic.
A Strong Regulatory Framework for Sustainable Growth
While we are committed to promoting trade. I note that we are mindful of the requirement to protect domestic entrepreneurs and consumers from unfair trade practices and low quality goods and services. As such, we will expedite the enactment of the necessary regulation for Anti-dumping and countervailing.
To ensure the quality of imported products such as milk powder, cosmetics, toiletries, shampoos etc., I propose that Sri Lanka Standards Institute, Industrial Technological Institute and Pharmaceuticals Research Laboratory be strengthened by increasing the technical cadre and the laboratory facilities for which I allocate Rs.200 million.
I propose to establish a Competition Authority to regulate the market for anti-competitive behavior of businesses which includes unfair monopolies, dumping, exclusive dealings, price fixing, etc.
Satellite Space of Sri Lanka
Our satellite space which has not been used will be tendered internationally through a transparent procedure.
Apparel Mall
The centre will offer a meeting place for domestic and foreign buyers for on the spot purchase or placing orders for the domestic market. Therefore, I propose to assist this brand journey by establishing a wholesale and retail mall exclusively for domestic apparel brands as a Public Private Partnership at a cost of Rs. 2,500 million where the Government would offer a plot of leased land for the construction of a mall with a floor area of at least 400,000 square feet.
Insurance against Natural Disasters
During the last 12 months alone we have had natural disasters from storms to floods to earth slips. The loss of human life and damages to property has been significant. The government has incurred over Rs.500 million on average per year in compensating such losses and supporting the rebuilding efforts. However, there are still issues in this mechanism that has resulted in the victims of disasters not realizing their due compensation, delays in the processes etc. As such to overcome such issues I propose the entire country be protected against natural disasters, such as Cyclones, Storm, Tempest, Flood, Landslide, Hurricane, Earthquake, Tsunami and any other natural peril. This natural disaster insurance will totally cover damages up to a maximum of Rs. 10,000 million with individual covers up to a maximum of Rs. 2.5 million and also Rs. 1 million life insurance.
Maintaining Price Stability
Since assuming office, on the 9th. January 2015, we managed to introduce concessions and benefits of hither to be unheard of proportions paving the way for a multitude of oppressed people to receive a fresh lease of life. The prices of thirteen essential food items were brought down including Milk Powder, Bread, Flour, Sugar etc. The prices of fuel reduced including the duties of small family vehicles, somewhat glutting the roadways with traffic but moreover providing an opportunity for Sri Lankan families to own a vehicle. LP gas prices were brought down by Rs.300 and increases in public sector salaries the highest historically, Samurdhi payments and other numerous concessions granted, drastically improved the disbursable income of the average Sri Lankan.
Government was elected in order to reduce the cost of living.
I propose to reduce the price of 11 selected essential commodities as promised.
I propose to reduce the Special Commodity Levy (SCL) of potatoes by Rs 25/- per kilogram. Accordingly, it is expected to provide a price ranging from Rs 75/- to 85/- for a kilogram of potatoes for the consumers. I also propose to reduce the SCL for big onions by Rs 25/- and to provide consumers with a price ranging from Rs 85/- to 95/- per a kilogram of big onions.
• As I have stated before, I also propose to reduce the price of a 400 gram packet of locally manufactured milk powder which is another main commodity to Rs 295/- and in order to cover the loss incurred by the local milk powder manufacturer, the Government will provide a subsidy of Rs 30/-. Considering the significance of the nutritional requirement of infants, I also propose to reduce price of infant milk powder by Rs 100/- per kilo.
• Hon Speaker, I also propose to reduce the price of a canned fish tin of 425 grams to Rs 125/-. Accordingly, I propose to provide a subsidy of Rs 15/- for a canned fish tin of 425 grams.
• Hon. Speaker, the consumer has to bear a high price for sprats which is another essential food item. The retail price of sprats oscillates varies considerably in the market. When Lanka Sathosa sells a kilo of sprats at a price of Rs 380/-, the retail sellers sells at a high price of Rs 800/-.I propose to limit the maximum retail price of Sprats to Rs 410/- per kilogram. As a result of the intermediaries being prevented by accruing unnecessarily large profits, the consumers will be able to benefit significantly.
• The consumers have to pay a high price for Dhal, which is another main public food commodity since the intermediate sellers keep a high profit margin. Though the cost of importation is around Rs 130/- per kilo of dhal, the selling price of dhal in the open market is as high as Rs 220/- per kilo. Accordingly, I propose to implement a maximum retail price of Rs 169/- per kilo of dhal in order to provide a reasonable price for the consumers. To do so, I will completely remove the SCL imposed on dhal.
• Honourable Speaker, I also propose to impose a maximum retail price of Rs 1,100/- for a kilo of “Katta” which is the most consumer demanded dried fish variety and to impose a maximum retail price of Rs 425/- for a dried fish kilo of “Salaya”. By doing so, I expect to protect the local dried fish producers and to provide consumers with a reasonable price for dried fish.
• Although the selling price of chick pea in the open market is high as Rs 220/- per kilo, the cost of importation per kilo of chick pea is as low as Rs 160/-. Accordingly, I propose to impose a maximum retail price of Rs 169/- for a kilo of chick pea in order to provide relief for the consumers.
• In addition, I also propose to reduce the price of a 12.5 Kg gas cylinder by Rs 150/- with immediate effect and to reduce the price of 1 liter of kerosene by Rs 10/- in order to provide relief for the poor. Stern legal action will be taken against the sale of kerosene oil mixed with other oil in order to prevent discrepancies faced by the poor.
• Hon Speaker, I propose to allocate a sum of Rs.3,000 million for the provision of these concessions. At the same time to ensure that the benefits envisaged from the reduction of taxes and the imposition of a price limit are passed on to the consumer as expected the effective and efficient functioning Consumer Affairs Authority (CAA) is crucial.
I am sure you will agree that the increase in prices of imported commodities especially essential food items, is mainly due to the lack of proper supply chain management and unscrupulous middlemen. To overcome this issue I propose the CWE wholesale to collaborate with the private sector to be a wholesale importer of such essential items providing buffer stock food security to the nation. Private sector will procure from CWE for sale. CWE will give the critical mass to ma ke it a viable proposition especially given that it has the required warehouse capacities. I am confident, that this endeavor will result in the prices of essential goods decreasing by almost 20 percent.
Project Monitoring
I also wish to allocate Rs.200 million to the Ministry of National Policies and Economic Affairs to enhance the policy formulation and policy analysis mechanism of the country to enable better design and monitoring of development polices.
All branding activities that is undertaken as private public partnerships will be coordinated by the Ministry of National Policies and Economic Affairs.
Allowances
The allowance of Rs.10,000 per month that has been made available to the public sector employees as a promise of our government. This allowance and the previously granted two interim allowances will be considered for the pension payment at the time of retirement.
Corruption-free Country
We now have a new Bribery Commission. Strengthening of the Commission to Investigate allegations of Bribery or Corruption is a key objective of our administration given our strong commitment to eradicate corruption from our country.
As such I propose to allocate a sum of Rs. 500 million for this purpose.
Parliamentary Affairs
Our administration is committed to strengthening the parliamentary system especially through measures such as the strengthening of the oversight committees. For this purpose I propose to allocate a sum of Rs. 250 million.
I also propose to allocate a sum of Rs.50 million to the J R Jayawardene Centre to be utilized to strengthen the capacities of the members of the parliament.
Tax Policy and Tax Administration we have now come to the most important sections of our maiden budget that is the strategy to find required revenue to finance many of the proposals I made so far in my speech. Honourable Speaker, as you are well aware, our tax system is outdated, complicated, complex and it is unattractive to investment and business development. It neither generate the required revenue nor encourage the people to save.
Plethora of taxes coupled with a multiple band structure has complicated the tax system, tax administration and discouraged the taxpayers' voluntary compliance. Developments in the government revenue in past years show a rapid decrease, from 20 percent of GDP in early 1990s to 11.3 per cent of GDP by 2014. The urgent necessity to increase this ratio has been clearly identified by the government and we aim to achieve a revenue target of 17 percent of GDP by 2018. Hence, this government has recognized that a complete transformation in the system is necessary.
Simplification of Tax System
At present, tax revenue is collected from around 35 types of different taxes and levies which has complicated the tax system. Hence, I propose the amalgamation of certain taxes which have failed to generate the expected revenue and to improve the revenue collection of the country. I also propose the elimination of certain non relevant nuisance taxes that prevail in the system which would benefit the tax payer as well as the business community. Accordingly, with a view to simplify the tax system, I propose to remove following taxes. - Share Transaction Levy - Construction Industry Guarantee Fund Levy - Luxury & Semi-Luxury Motor Vehicle Tax - Tourism Development Levy (TDL) Income Tax Corporate Income Tax
In order to ensure that shareholders get a reasonable dividend for their investment, the minimum amount of dividend to be distributed by quoted companies will be increased to 15 percent of the distributable profits.
Surtax on Tobacco, Liquor and Casinos
Speaker, to avoid any undue benefit by tobacco, liquor and casino industries from corporate tax revisions and keeping in line with government policy of creating a society free of tobacco, liquor and betting and gaming, I propose to impose a surtax at the rate of 25 percent of income tax liability.
Personal Income Tax
At present, employees whose annual income is over Rs.750,000/- is liable for PAYE tax which is a progressive tax. The maximum tax rate is 16 per cent. With a view to further simplifying the PAYE tax system and to ensure better compliance, I propose to amend the law applicable to the PAYE tax to ensure equal treatment to all employees. In
order to provide concessions to employees, I also propose to increase the tax free annual threshold to Rs.2.4 million. The PAYE tax over and above this limit to be charged at a uniform 15 percent and the taxable income will be inclusive of all the earnings by the employee with no exemptions. This method and rate will also be applied for individual income earners instead of the present progressive rate of up to 24 percent. Further, any income from secondary employment will also be taxed at the same rate without any exemptions. Honourable Speaker, by applying prudent monetary and fiscal policies,Government has been able to maintain low interest rates during this year. This has immensely helped the public to obtain loans at low interest rates for investing in businesses enabling better returns. As a result, the interest earnings of long term depositors of cash suffered as the interest income has reduced. Hence, I propose to abolish applying 2.5 percent withholding tax on deposits with effect from 01 January, 2016.
Economic Service Charge (ESC)
ESC is imposed as a levy for usage of infrastructure facility provided by Government.
Presently, ESC is imposed only for loss making businesses or exempt businesses. In order to strengthen the collection of the charge and also considering the rationale of the imposition of ESC, the present exclusion of profit making businesses and the minimum threshold of payment of Rs 120 million per year will be removed and the applicable rate will be increased to 0.5 per cent. In addition, the period of carried forward balances will be limited to 3 years.
Value Added Tax (VAT)
The VAT system in Sri Lanka is severely distorted due to the ad hoc policies adopted in time to time over the past few years. Under-invoicing of imports, leakages in the value chain and long list of exemptions resulted low revenue below expectation. Hon. Speaker, I propose to remove certain exemptions with the view to increase revenue. The present single rate will be revised to 3 bands 0%, standard rate of 8% and 12.5% higher rate for service sector and the minimum threshold for the liability for VAT will be Rs.12 million per annum.
The wholesale and retail trade will be excluded from VAT.
Nation Building Tax (NBT)
I propose to reduce the NBT threshold in line with VAT and the rate will be increased to 4% and certain exemptions will be removed. Revenue generated from the increase of rate will be transferred to the Consolidated Fund.
Betting and Gaming
The casino entrance fee imposed in the last budget will be removed and the annual levy imposed on the business of gaming other than rujino, will be increased to Rs.400 million. 553. I also propose to amend the Finance Act to make directors and shareholders personally liable for non-payment or any act which is taken to avoid payment of Casino Industry Levy introduced in Interim Budget.
Tax Incentive Regime
The government would also like to propose to do away with ad-hoc and unproductive tax concessions offered by different agencies as it has led to the existence of different tax regimes in the system, which has created un-competitiveness among the entrepreneurs. It has also created an environment where the tax regime is not compatible with the overall fiscal policy of the government. Thus, I propose that the concessions granted for any investment should be strictly under the supervision and monitoring of the Ministry of Finance which would be governed by regulations issued by the Ministry.
Revisions to Motor Vehicle Taxes
It is reported that there are over 6 million vehicles in service in the country. Road accidents are also on the rise. Hence, we must care about safety of passengers as well as environment concern about vehicles. Considering above facts, I propose following with regard to motor vehicles.
Unit Rate on Excise for Vehicles
Due to the reports on revenue leakages from the under valuation of motor vehicles for tax purposes, a new valuation system was introduced recently taking full option manufactures price as the tax base. To further strengthen this process of collecting the duly payable taxes, I propose to introduce a simple unit rate of excise duty for the vehicles on the basis of cubic centimeters. Duties on the percentage basis on certain vehicles will also be revised.
Tax Incentives for Environment Friendly Vehicles
The Government is taking measures to improve a cleaner environment in the country. For encouraging the use of environment friendly vehicles with reduced emission, I propose to reduce Excise duty to 2.5 percent for the vehicles which are run entirely on Solar, Hydrogen or Helium.
Motor Vehicle Entitlement Certificate
558. Honourable Speaker, in the interim budget presented on 29 January, this year, I proposed to introduce motor vehicles import registration license fee for importers who import motor vehicles for business purposes. However, it being a uniform fee, large scale vehicle importers would have gained an undue advantage from this measure. In view of this, instead of the said license fee, I propose to introduce a vehicle import fee to obtain a Vehicle Entitlement Certificate for each vehicle. This certificate will be issued by the Department of Inland Revenue and the certificate will be necessary for opening of Letter of Credit for importing a vehicle. I propose a Vehicle Entitlement Certificate fee of Rs. 2,000 per Motor Cycle and Three Wheeler, Rs.15,000/- for a Motor Car and Rs.10,000/- per vehicle for all other vehicles.
Revenue License and Emission Test
559. Periodically, revenue license fee should have to be reviewed in accordance with road maintenance costs and environment costs with the view of enhancing Provincial Council revenue. Accordingly, I propose to revise revenue license fee for motor vehicles. A fee charged on the certificate of emission test will be enhanced to Rs. 5,000. Issuance of vehicle emission certificates will be liberalized and opened up for competition by allowing more players to come in.
Registration of Vehicles
It has been brought to our notice that some of the vehicles which are being assembled in the country have not been registered with the Department of Motor Traffic Department due to various reasons. I urge the owners of such vehicles to register their vehicles by 31 March 2016, by paying a fee of Rs. 750,000 for commercial vehicles and Rs. 1 million for motor cars.
To earn foreign exchange as well as to reduce the used vehicle fleet in the country, I propose to export such vehicles after being reconditioned. This will enhance the motor mechanics related activities creating new employment opportunities as well. For every 20 vehicles exported by the same exporter under this scheme, a 50 percent tax credit will be given for the importation of one motor car. Also, I encourage the private sector to seek possibilities of importing used cars and export after reconditioning.
562. I propose to introduce a unique vehicle number plate system which could be auctioned.
Concessionary Permit Schemes
563. Honourable Speaker, the vehicle permit schemes have been politicized and misused and have created a huge revenue loss over Rs. 40 billion a year to the government. I propose to abolish all the vehicle permits granted under different schemes, including to Parliamentarians. However, I ensure all government officers will be financially compensated for the benefit foregone. Further, all the vehicles purchased to the Government will be subject to all applicable taxes and necessary allocations will be provided in the budget.
Stamp Duty Reduction on Credit Cards
564. Presently stamp duty is levied at 1.5 percent for purchases using a credit card. I propose to remove stamp duty on credit cards for local purchases and stamp duty for foreign purchases will be increased to 2.5 percent.
Mansion Tax
565. Provisions in relation to Mansion Tax which was introduced in the interim budget will continue to be applicable except for condominium units. 
